The arrival of Dan Ashworth to Manchester United has moved closer - it is all about agreeing the compensation figure with Newcastle United, now – and one breathless night of football does not remove the sense that the new order is needed, even though it will be remembered here for many a long year.

United left this bouncing, beautiful football place with a fifth successive Premier League win, the prospect of a three-way fight with Tottenham Hotspur and Aston Villa for fourth spot and a growing sense that in Rasmus Hojland they have a striker of character and class. 'The real deal,' as Gary Neville described the forward whose two early goals took him to seven in six games.

But the game's final act said far more about Manchester United now lying sixth, three points behind Spurs. It was a header, applied by Ross Barkley, the game's outstanding player, which struck the top of the bar and, for all of United's missed chances, so nearly levelled things. When all's said and done, the lavishly assembled United escaped from Luton by the skin of their teeth.

Hojlund was the part of it all that United can cherish today. The youngest player to score in six successive Premier League games and an individual with the kind of confidence – ego, even - which you need in the searing spotlight of the United frontline. His pace, taken with that of Alejandro Garnacho and Marcus Rashford, suits United's counter attacking game so well.

Erik ten Hag spoke last night of the striker's character. 'He can perform under stress. We liked that when we scouted him,' he reflected. The 21-year-old revealed that in the way he took his first goal a mere 37 seconds into the game - seizing gleefully on Amari'i Bell's dire attempt to control a bouncing ball, taking the ball on himself and spooling around Thomas Kaiminski to slot.

Rasmus Hojlund bagged a brace to see Manchester United beat Luton Town 2-1 on Sunday

Hojlund (21 years 14 days old) surpassed Joe Willock 's record (21 years 272 days old) by scoring twice in Manchester United's clash at Kenilworth Road

Hojlund opened the scoring in the first minute of the game, finding the back of the net after Amari'i Bell's error put Hojlund through on goal

Your browser does not support iframes.

He revealed it as he detailed, post-match, how he had been practising with his reflexes and his shoulders, allowing him to react to a sliced Alejandro Garnacho shot and swivel his upper body to divert it into the net. 'Marginal gains', as Dave Brailsford, Sir Jim Ratcliffe's man, would probably say.

The sun was starting to sink when that second goal flew in, after a mere seven minutes, and the Luton players stared at each other in such bewilderment you feared for them. An opponent with real pretensions would have suffocated them from a position like that, silencing this heaving, bouncing bearpit in the process.

But the inconvenient truth is that United struggle to exert control of games. It is a weakness often resides in the central areas, because of Bruno Fernandes and Casemiro's defensive limitations, but the flanks were also deeply treacherous places for them as Luton attacked.

The individual controlling the match was Barklay and there were times during the utterly compelling first half when he toyed with United's lavish assembled midfield. The dummy he sold Fernandes after half an hour so passed almost without notice amid the melee. So, too, an exquisite little sweet spin around Kobbie Mainoo. This was a player on a different cognitive level to anyone in white.

Hojlund extended Manchester United's lead just six minutes later, deflecting Alejandro Garnacho 's attempted volley home

Hojlund (pictured scoring above) has been on fine form for Manchester United - having started his goalscoring streak on Boxing Day when the Red Devils beat Villa 3-2 at Old Trafford

Manchester United are currently sitting sixth in the Premier League table, five points off Villa in fourth

MATCH FACTS

Luton (3-4-2): Kaminski, Mengi, Osho, Bell, Chong (Clark 68'), Sambi Lokonga, Barkley, Doughty (Berry 82'), Ogbene, Morris, Woodrow (Townsend 68') Unused substitutes: Kabore, Burke, Mpanzu, Krul, Nelson Goals: Morris 14' Yellow cards: Woodrow, Townsend, Osho Manager: Rob Edwards Man Utd (4-2-3-1): Onana, Dalot, Varane, Maguire (Evans 46'), Shaw (Lindelof 45+2'), Mainoo, Casemiro (McTominay 46'), Garnacho, Bruno Fernandes, Rashford, Hojlund (Amrabat 86') Substitutes: Bayindir, Eriksen, Diallo, Antony, Forson Goals: Hojlund 1', 7' Yellow cards: Shaw, Casemiro, Maguire, Mainoo, Lindelof Manager: Erik ten Hag Attendance: 11,483 Referee: David Coote (Nottinghamshire) Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sport/football/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_2 - ->

It became a brutal and bruising evening for Luke Shaw, run a merry dance by Cheidozie Ogbene, while the tireless left wingback Alfie Doughty, on the opposite flank, was free to cross accurately so often that you wondered where the tactical preparation had been all week.

The three bookings United incurred in the first half were symbols of a slackness. Shaw extended an arm as Ogbemne threatened to embarrass him. Maguire hacked at Carlton Morris as he made to drive into the area.

Casemiro went in late on Bell and was lucky not to be sent off for going through the back of Barkley. What a spectacle. Three vastly-experienced, vastly-enumerated United players, casually placing their team in positions of vulnerability with their poor decision-making, semi-detached passes and minimal anticipation.

The noisy United contingent sang of their team in a way which suggested they are back and on the up. But Maguire deconstructed the notion, tamely passing a ball out of defence straight to Barkley, who put substitute Cauley Woodrow in.

So did Shaw, ponderously responding after former United academy graduate Tahith Chong's shot on the turn spun deflected up for Carlton Morris who responded first to head in Luton's goal. Shaw departed with an injury before half time.

Carlton Morris managed to score a consolation goal for Luton Town in the 14th minute

United defender Luke Shaw was forced off injured and left the field just before half-time

Ross Barkley could have equalised for Luton, rising above the Man United defence to head the ball into the cross bar

Ten Hag did not send Casemiro and Maguire back out for the second half and in Jonny Evans and Scott McTominay there was better order. Luton went hunting and left themselves exposed, though United could not capitalise.

Karminksi had a lot to do with that. The goalkeeper applied a touch of his glove to the ball when Garnacho seemed to have rounded him and recovered to stop the forward's shot after he gathered and made for goal again.

Albert Sambi Lokonga made the game's outstanding defensive intervention, blocking Fernandes' shot after he had rounded Karminski. The goalkeeper also denied Hojlund a hat-trick from close range.

Though United might have scored five, there was still jeopardy when that last corner came in and Barklay rose to twist his head into it. Brailsford congratulated the players as they climbed back onto the coach last night, but there was no disguising things. They had escaped and they knew it.

Thomas Kaminski did well to deny Hojlund a hat-trick after the youngster had bagged a brace