Anton Danyluk and Georgia Harrison have had a rocky few days in the Love Island All Stars villa.

And after another brawl, which saw the duo sleep in separate beds, Anton turns to Toby Aromolaran in Sunday night's episode to discuss how he is feeling about his relationship with Georgia.

Anton revealed in recent days that his feelings for Georgia are getting stronger and stronger each day but was unsure if it was being reciprocated.

While they seemed to have squashed the drama following Tuesday's tense challenge and appeared to be getting back on track, Friday's episode saw the duo fall out once again.

In scenes set to air on Sunday night, Toby says: 'In here, I feel like you feel everything. The good, the bad…'

After a rocky few days for Anton Danyluk and Georgia Harrison in the villa, Anton turns to Toby Aromolaran to discuss how he is feeling during Sunday night's episode

Elsewhere in the penultimate episode, the islanders will get a shock when they see the dumped singletons return to the villa (Kaz Kamwi pictured)

Anton says: 'I feel like a lot of it, I’ve just been holding it in for weeks and it all came out last night.'

Toby says: 'You do have to depend on your couple in here a lot of the time. To be your rock, your person you can lean on…'

Will Anton and Georgia hash things out and move forward with their romance or will this be the end?

Elsewhere in the penultimate episode, the islanders will get a shock when they see the dumped singletons return to the villa.

For the first time ever, ex islanders will make a return in one last savage twist before the finale on Monday night.

While the girls have a morning debrief, the quickly notice the former islanders making their way back into the villa.

Molly shouts: 'Oh my God, my heart is pounding.'

Georgia H gets a text and reads: 'Islanders, please gather around the fire pit immediately.'

Anton revealed in recent days that his feelings for Georgia (pictured) are getting stronger and stronger each day but was unsure if it was being reciprocated

In scenes set to air on Sunday night, Toby says: 'In here, I feel like you feel everything. The good, the bad…' Anton says: 'I feel like a lot of it, I’ve just been holding it in for weeks and it all came out last night'

Will Anton and Georgia hash things out and move forward with their romance or will this be the end?

For the first time ever, ex islanders will make a return in one last savage twist before the finale on Monday night

While the girls have a morning debrief, the quickly notice the former islanders making their way back into the villa

Molly shouts: 'Oh my God, my heart is pounding.' Georgia H gets a text and reads: 'Islanders, please gather around the fire pit immediately.'

She then says: 'Guys, I think whatever's about to happen is going to be savage.'

She then says: 'Guys, I think whatever's about to happen is going to be savage.'

In a first look clip the singleton's dramatically arrive dressed in their bikini and swimming trunks to offer their opinion on the remaining couples.

According to The Sun the reunion will lead to one 'fan favourite couple' brutally axed and fall at the final hurdle ahead of Monday live finale.

A source told the publication: 'Bosses often like to reserve one last twist before the final and, true to form, they saved one last brutal elimination for the last weekend of the series.

'There were lots of tears shed as the pair said goodbye to their fellow villa residents. Even though they will all be reunited again on Monday night for the final, they've all grown so close and no one wants to leave at this stage, especially so close to the end'.

MailOnline have contacted ITV for comment.

On Friday fans were left devastated as Molly Smith and Callum Jones confirmed they would never rekindle their romance.

Viewers had hoped the couple would get back together having entered the villa last month after splitting following a three-and-a-half year relationship in September last year.

In a first look clip the singleton's dramatically arrive dressed in their bikini and swimming trunks to offer their opinion on the remaining couples

It'e believed the reunion will lead to a 'fan favourite couple' brutally axed and fall at the final hurdle ahead of Monday live finale

On Friday fans were left devastated as Molly Smith and Callum Jones confirmed they would never rekindle their romance

Viewers had hoped the couple would get back together having entered the villa last month after splitting following a three-and-a-half year relationship in September last year

The couple appeared to have found closure during their time living together in South Africa and, despite Molly being coupled-up with Tom Clare and Callum being paired-up with Jess Gale, fans of the show had hoped Molly and Callum would realise see a future for themselves together.

During a chat about the current status of their relationship, Callum told Molly: 'If I could take anything from this, it's that we've actually got a friendship now because on the outside we didn't have that.'

He added: 'I'm happy that you've found Tom. He makes you happy.'

After Molly told him she was happy he'd found Jess, he said: 'I'm enjoying it. We would never have come to this on the outside. I feel like I'm i a good place.'

The pair they shook hands at the end of their conversation and refused to make eye contact with each other as they joked people may read into it.

Fans of the show took to social media to express their sadness at the prospect of Molly and Callum not getting back together.

One person wrote on Twitter: 'I’m still convinced Molly and Callum are going to get back together.. I’m rooting for it till the very end.'

Someone else wrote: 'Molly and Callum shaking hands, end of an era.'

Love Island All Stars: Unseen Bits airs on Sunday 18 February at 9pm on ITV2 and ITVX.