Barnaby Joyce has given up drinking for a religious holiday after he was filmed lying on a public footpath rambling on his phone, having mixed alcohol with prescription medication.

The former deputy prime minister, who has denied having a problem with alcohol, also refused to comment on his Nationals colleague Perin Davey who admitted to drinking alcohol before she was caught slurring her words at a budget estimates hearing.

'I have given up two things for Lent, one is drinking, and the other one is talking about other people in regards to that,' Mr Joyce told Nine's Today Show on Monday.

'I will let other people deal with the issues that are personal to them. I won't be adding commentary to it.'

Daily Mail Australia captured video of Barnaby Joyce lying on the footpath on a Canberra street mumbling into his phone about a fortnight ago

Ms Davey was filmed stumbling over her words while speaking at a Senate environment and communications legislation committee hearing on February 13. The NSW Senator has denied being intoxicated but said she consumed two glasses of wine at a staff drinks function beforehand.

Nationals leader David Littleproud defended Ms Davey's actions and said he 'wholeheartedly' supported the MP's assurances that she was not drunk.

'We're not without faults in the National Party,' he told Sky News.

'We all slur our words from time to time and I think this is a bit of an overreach.'

The incident, which emerged just one week after Mr Joyce was filmed sprawled drunk on a Canberra footpath after a long parliamentary sitting day, has sparked growing calls to reconsider an alcohol ban in parliament.

NSW Senator and Nationals deputy leader Perin Davey slurred her speech during a budget estimates hearing. Picture: Supplied

Opposition leader Peter Dutton said individuals should take responsibility for their actions and that he thought a lot of people would learn a lesson from the scandals.

'People can have a drink in moderation. You can catch up with friends, you can attend social functions and that happens in workplaces and across society every day. But you need to take responsibility, particularly if you're in the public eye,' he told Sunrise.

When earlier asked about the back-to-back alcohol-related controversies plaguing his party, Mr Joyce remained tight lipped but said he thought the issue had been blown out of proportion for political reasons.

'Sometimes I do get a sense of 'let's exploit this issue politically for all the purpose we can get,' he said.'That is an issue for the parties to decide. I will let them have that discussion.'

Crossbencher Zali Steggall has called for random drug and alcohol testing in Parliament. Above, Mr Joyce during Question Time last week

Teals MP Zali Steggall last week urged the prime minister to introduce random drug and alcohol testing into parliament, citing an 'apparent issue' with a culture of alcohol consumption in Canberra.Environment Minister Tanya Plibersek said she did not think that an alcohol ban would deter parliamentarians from drinking at work.

The senior Labor figure knocked back calls to roll out breath testing for federal MPs, arguing there was 'real problem' if the public could not trust their elected officials to resist drinking in their workplace.

'I think the first thing to say is people shouldn't be drunk at work. I think adults need to think very hard about their consumption of alcohol in the workplace - I don't really see any cause for it at all,' she said.

'The truth is most parliamentarians don't drink at work, what you see is a few high-profile cases that I suppose give the impression that we are all out there [on the drink] every night. It's simply not the case.'