Kim Kardashian made a fashion statement this week as she stepped out in a sexy black and white outfit in Los Angeles.

The 43-year-old mogul — who was recently criticized on TikTok — carried a Hermès handbag worth five-figures, drawing attention to thick bandages on two of her fingers.

Kardashian wore a cropped white tank top that bared her toned abdomen and added a black jacket and mariachi pants.

She looked typically sleek with her long, raven locks arranged in a center part and ironed straight.

It comes amid her hot new romance with NFL star Odell Beckham Jr.

Kim Kardashian made a fashion statement this week as she stepped out in a sexy black and white outfit in Los Angeles

The 43-year-old mogul — who was recently criticized on TikTok — carried a Hermès handbag worth five-figures, drawing attention to thick bandages on two of her fingers

The beauty, who shares four children with ex-husband Kanye West, wore her shearling-lined jacket hanging off her shoulders.

She added a pair of pointed toe black boots and shielded her brown eyes in a pair of sleek, rectangular black sunglasses.

Underneath the accessory she showed off a face of flawlessly applied matte makeup.

Kim's fingers are also wrapped in her latest Instagram post, which was uploaded three days ago.

In the sexy snapshots shared with her 364 million followers, she posed in a slinky, plunging black top that revealed her perky cleavage.

The look was backless and she teamed it with a pair of snug, black trousers.

Topping the ensemble was a $650 black Stetson 20X Gus hat from Kemo Sabe, which she customized while visiting the shop in Aspen, Colorado.

She accentuated the trendy cowboy hat with an Elk Bolo Tie and used a cowboy emoji in the caption, making no mention of her injured digits.

Kardashian wore a cropped white tank top that bared her toned abdomen and added a black jacket and mariachi pants

Kim's fingers are also wrapped in her latest Instagram post, which was uploaded three days ago

In the sexy snapshots shared with her 364 million followers, she posed in a slinky, plunging black top that revealed her perky cleavage

It comes amid her hot new romance with NFL star Odell Beckham Jr; He is pictured in 2023

A source told DailyMail.com that Kim is being careful with her Odell relationship, noting that the billionaire wants to keep mum as speculation of their romance continues.

'Kim wants to keep her romantic life as private as she can right now,' an insider shared.

'Odell's personality is much more private than Kardashian's,' the person continued about the athlete, 31.

It was shared that he's 'more low-key' and he doesn't want their relationship to be headline news like her past romances with Kanye, Kris Humphries, Reggie Bush, and Pete Davidson were.