An influential pollster has launched a scathing attack against office workers to defend tradies following outrage over a new union pay deal.

RedBridge Group director Kos Samaras issued the blunt message on X claiming those who worked behind a desk were less important than tradies.

His tirade came as the Construction, Forestry, Maritime Employees Union (CFMEU) inched closer to inking a new workplace agreement.

Basic labourers and junior stop-sign holders who work 36-hour weeks will be given 'at least' a five per cent pay rise bringing the salary up to $120,000.

The workers would earn more than $2,000 per week and be given a $260 travel allowance while those working overtime would make even more money.

The news has sparked outrage among some Australians who complained it was unfair someone 'holding a pole all day' would be paid so generously.

Mr Samaras, who worked as Victorian Labor's deputy campaign director from 2005 to 2019, was among those defending the deal, delivering a blistering takedown.

'Just a friendly reminder that workers who build things with their hands are actually more important than most who work behind a desk,' he wrote on Sunday.

Traffic controllers are set to receive $120,000 salaries - leading to a Labor Party operator telling those who work behind a desk they are less important than tradies (pictured is a Sydney traffic controller)

His opinion appeared to annoy many of his 27,900 followers, including many with progressive political views

'The latter's social value is extremely subjective. The former group's work is easy to measure. Objective.

'Without them, those working behind the desk will starve, freeze, and not be able to function.

'No homes, no desks, no office, no plastic, no food, no phones, nothing. Your university degree does not place you above these workers.

'It only ensures you don't raise a sweat to produce value for society.'

Traffic controllers on Melbourne's Metro Tunnel Project are already paid $126,600 a year when site and travel allowances were included.

The CFMEU's state secretary John Setka is pushing to expand that deal for less skilled workers across state government-funded road and rail projects.

Mr Samara's comment appeared to annoy many of his 27,900 followers.

Andrew Griffith, a self-described progressive from Melbourne, noted many people who contributed to society didn't make things with their hands.

'I disagree strongly. It depends on what they do,' he said.

'Nurses, doctors, teachers, ambulance drivers etc don't "build things with their hands" but we would be f*d without them. I could go on but I don’t think I need to.'

Another was even more scathing: 'As if our tradie-worshipping, anti-intellectual populace needs a "friendly reminder".'

'When a job requiring minimal education and minimal effort is valued more highly than teachers, nurses and police, there is something very wrong with the system,' another critic said.

But one tradie pointed out the work was physically demanding, which meant those who had to crawl under houses to install pipes or lift heavy pieces of timber would be unable to work until they could receive the age pension at 67.

'Thanks Kos, we tradies pay the price when we age, knee's, shoulders, backs etcetera, and they expect us to keep going until 67,' he said.

A second person added: 'I think they deserve it. Under the sun all day, lots of overnight shifts.

'Breathing all the car fumes for 7-8 hours a day. I won't do it and thankful for those people who do.'

'It can be a very boring and hard job and you have to have your wits about you at all times,' another said.

The Construction Forestry Mining and Energy Union continued to negotiate $120,000 enterprise bargaining deals for traffic controllers on Big Build projects in Victoria, covering major road and rail projects (pictured are CFMEU protesters in Melbourne)

Mr Samaras had surprising support from Matthew Camenzuli, a former member of the NSW Liberal Party state executive who sued former prime minister Scott Morrison over preselections.

'I agree Kos. Too bad Labor have forgotten its base and the Liberals have been busy becoming a Teal balloon animal,' he said.

'The Libs are going to find their way back soon and pick them and the rest of the forgotten people up. It is a resurgence that is long overdue.'

Australia's highest paid professionals are typically surgeons, who technically work with their hands after spending many years at university, having an average, taxable income of $457,281 in 2020-21.

But tradies who didn't go to university can typically earn six-figure salaries with construction project managers having a taxable income of $120,029.

The building industry is cyclical with the Reserve Bank's 13 interest rates rises in 2022 and 2023 causing a spate of construction company collapses.

Rising building costs have also hurt residential home builders who are obliged to honour fixed-price contracts.

Despite that, Prime Minister Anthony Albanese and the states last year promised to build 1.2million 'new well-located homes' over five years, from July 1, 2024.

Mr Samaras noted builders were in short supply, despite immigration hitting record-high levels above 500,000 in 2022-23.

'Well, speak to any government in Australia right now. They can’t find enough construction labour to build homes,' he said.

Kos Samaras, a Labor-aligned pollster who is now the director of the RedBridge Group, issued the blunt message on X - dividing opinion among his left-wing social media followers

Skills Minister Brendan O'Connor on Monday launched a review into apprenticeships to tackle the skills shortage.

'We know that almost half of all apprentices don't complete their training. Addressing the completion rate is not just vitally important for individuals and employers, but also for the Australian economy,' he said.

Many tradies also aren't particularly well paid with bricklayers having an average, taxable income of $63,180 compared with $72,180 for a carpenter.

Both levels would now be below the average salary of $72,735 in 2023, covering both full-time and part-time workers.

A book editor with a publisher has an average taxable income of $70,443, compared with a librarian pay's of $71,891 for someone who has gone to university and done an arts degree, the Australian Taxation Office data showed.

The pay levels were similar to a midwife on $73,676.

Tax accountants had an average, taxable income of $87,315, but this is below the average, full-time salary of $95,581.