They have filed for a conservatorship to ensure he is properly treated

Representatives for Wilson's family said he has a 'major neurocognitive disorder'

The legendary Beach Boys mastermind and singer Brian Wilson is reportedly suffering from dementia.

Two representatives for the 81-year-old performer — who is one of the most acclaimed songwriters of the 20th century — and his family have said in a court filing that Wilson is suffering from a 'major neurocognitive disorder (such as dementia),' according to documents obtained Thursday by The Blast.

In the filing, the hitmaker's team requests that a conservatorship be set up for the legendary musician to help treat the alleged condition.

The news of Wilson's condition comes after he suffered a tragedy late last month when his longtime wife Melinda died at age 77.

Wilson's family shared a statement with DailyMail.com about the current legal moves.

Representatives of the family of Beach Boys mastermind Brian Wilson, 81, said in court filings that he is suffering from dementia, according to documents obtained by The Blast; seen in 2020 in Santa Rosa Beach, Florida

Wilson (far right) is considered one of the greatest songwriters of the 20th century for his innovative work with The Beach Boys (pictured in 1964). In addition to composing many of their tunes, he sang lead and backing vocals and played multiple instruments on their records; (L–R) Carl Wilson, Dennis Wilson, Mike Love, Al Jardine and Brian Wilson

'Following the passing of Brian’s beloved wife Melinda, after careful consideration and consultation among Brian, his seven children, Gloria Ramos and Brian's doctors (and consistent with family processes put in place by Brian and Melinda), we are confirming that longtime Wilson family representatives LeeAnn Hard and Jean Sievers will serve as Brian’s co-conservators of the person.

'This decision was made to ensure that there will be no extreme changes to the household and Brian and the children living at home will be taken care of and remain in the home where they are cared for by Gloria Ramos and the wonderful team at the house who have been in place for many years helping take care of the family.

'Brian will be able to enjoy all of his family and friends and continue to work on current projects as well as participate in any activities he chooses,' they concluded.

Wilson has a decades-long history of mental health issues and has struggled with substance abuse in the past, and the filing says he would allegedly be unable to care for himself as his condition deteriorates.

Wilson's representatives say in their filing that he is currently being treated for dementia.

'The (proposed) conservatee does NOT have the capacity to informed consent to the administration of medications appropriate to the care and treatment of major neurocognitive disorders (including dementia),' they claim.

'The deficits in mental function assessed … significantly impair the (proposed) conservatee’s ability to understand and appreciate the consequences of giving consent to the administration of medications for the care and treatment of major neurocognitive disorders,' they added.

They also say that Wilson is not able to attend hearings on the matter 'because of medical inability.'

Following the filing, a hearing will now be held, at which time a judge will determine whether or not to grant the request to institute a conservatorship.

Court records indicate that the hearing is currently scheduled for April 26, 2024.

The news of Wilson's condition comes after he suffered a tragedy late last month when his longtime wife Melinda died at age 77; pictured together in 2015 in Berlin

A statement to DailyMail.com from Wilson's family confirmed that 'longtime Wilson family representatives LeeAnn Hard and Jean Sievers will serve as Brian’s co-conservators of the person'; Wilson is pictured in 2015 in Las Vegas

The filing says Wilson's 'fear, depression, helplessness' are 'severely inappropriate,' and a doctor is quoted as saying he is 'easily distracted,' 'Often makes ... irrelevant or incoherent utterances' and that he 'Has very short attention span'; Wilson seen in January 2020 in Florida

According to The Blast, a 'capacity' filing among the documents says that Wilson's 'fear, depression, helplessness' are 'severely inappropriate.'

The filing quotes a doctors saying Wilson is 'easily distracted, often even when aware of surroundings, and its purpose.'

They added that the musician 'Often makes spontaneous irrelevant or incoherent utterances' and 'Has very short attention span and while unintentionally disruptive, is frequently unable to maintain decorum appropriate to the situation.'

He was also said to be taking medication to 'slow the progression of the illness.'

Wilson's family indicated in its statement and in the court filing that the death of his wife Melinda on January 30, 2024 necessitated the conservatorship request, as she had been taking care of his 'daily living needs.'

'Mr. Wilson is unable to properly provide for his own personal needs for physical health, food, clothing, or shelter,' the filing continues.

His representatives explain that he has an 'Advance Health Care Directive' that names his late wife as his 'agent for health care,' but she did not have a 'successor agent' named, laving him without someone in that role after her death last month.

'Jean Sievers is Mr. Wilson’s longtime publicist and manager, and LeeAnn Hard is Mr. Wilson’s longtime business manager. They have had a close relationship with Mr. and Mrs. Wilson for many years, and Mr. Wilson trusts them,' the filing states.

It adds that 'Ms. Hard is not requesting the appointment of a conservator of the estate because Mr. Wilson has a trust, his assets are held in trust, and Ms. Hard is trustee of his trust.'

In an anguished social media post announcing his wife Melinda's death, Brian wrote: 'My heart is broken. Melinda, my beloved wife of 28 years, passed away this morning. Our five children and I are just in tears.

'We are lost,' he continued. 'Melinda was more than my wife. She was my savior.'

The couple were married in 1995

The songwriters representatives add that they hope 'Mr. Wilson will remain in his home, and it is Ms. Siever's and Ms. Hard's intent to ensure that all of Mr. Wilson’s daily living needs are satisfied and he has the best possible care while remaining in his home.'

Wilson was previously reported to have been diagnosed with schizoaffective disorder and bipolar disorder in the past.

In a 2015 interview with Salon — which his wife Melinda joined him for — Wilson admitted to experiencing auditory hallucinations in the form of voices for decades.

'I have voices in my head,' he explained. 'Mostly it’s derogatory. Some of it’s cheerful. Most of it isn’t.'

Wilson began heavily using drugs in the mid-1960s, including the psychedelic drug LSD, and shortly afterward he began to develop paranoid delusions.

Wilson had nearly full control of the Beach Boys during the making of the band's masterpiece, 1966's Pet Sounds.

He produced the album himself, wrote or co-wrote all of its songs and sang lead on many of its tunes.

The album, which Paul McCartney has cited as a favorite and said inspired him to write more ambitious songs for The Beatles, initially underperformed commercially and received middling reviews, but it has since gone on to be considered one of the greatest pop and rock albums of all time.

But Wilson's drug use and deteriorating mental health made it difficult to complete the even more ambitious follow-up, Smile, which was ultimately shelved, though subsequent songs were later rerecorded and an incomplete version was finally released in 2011.

His representatives explain that he has an 'Advance Health Care Directive' that names his late wife Melinda as his 'agent for health care,' but she didn't have a 'successor agent' named, laving him without someone in that role after her death last month; seen in 2015 on The View

Wilson extensively used drugs in the mid-'60s and began suffering from hallucinations and paranoid delusions, though he has made a remarkable recovery in subsequent decades; seen in January 2020

Wilson admitted in 2015 to still hearing voices in his head, which are often 'derogatory,' but he has performed extensively with the Beach Boys and a successful solo artist despite that; seen in January 2020

Despite the persistent voices he hears, Wilson made a remarkable recover in subsequent decades.

He returned to performing with the Beach Boys on and off over the years and released several acclaimed solo albums, including a rerecorded, completed version of Smile.

Wilson still has more music to release as well. In 1970, he began work to produce a country album with former Beach Boys manager Fred Vail on lead vocals, but it was ultimately shelved.

But Wilson and Vail have since returned to finish the album and release it in 2025, and Wilson will even be featured on guest vocals, according to Rolling Stone.