Tyson Fury has officially touched down in the UK after leaving Saudi Arabia following the postponement of his undisputed title clash with Oleksandr Usyk.

The highly-anticipated bout had been scheduled to take place in Riyadh on February 17 but was postponed after Fury sustained an injury during camp.

The Gypsy King suffered a severe cut above his right eye on Friday while sparring, forcing the bout to be pushed back until May 18.

Fury - who required 15 stitches after getting caught by Agron Smakici's elbow in training - finished his conditioning in Saudi before returning to the UK.

The Gypsy King was pictured sitting on a private jet with his nutritionist Greg Marriott and his strength and conditioning coach Kristian Blacklock as they made their way back to England.

Tyson Fury has officially touched down in the UK after leaving Saudi Arabia following the postponement of his undisputed title clash with Oleksandr Usyk

Fury sustained a nasty laceration above his right eye which has postponed his fight until May

Fury - who required 15 stitches after getting caught by Agron Smakici's elbow in training - finished his conditioning in Saudi before returning to the UK

Blacklock shared the photo on his Instagram story with the following caption: 'Team hone but we will be carrying on the good work.

'Improvements have been made in the last four months that can built upon! Always take the positive from bad situations.'

Fury and Usyk's long-awaited clash to determine the first undisputed heavyweight champion in more than two decades was postponed earlier this week after Fury sustained a cut above his right eye in sparring.

Footage later emerged of a sparring session where the Gypsy King appeared to be hit with a glancing elbow that could have caused the laceration that required multiple stitches.

In the aftermath of the postponement, Fury took to social media to say: 'Cant help getting injured in sparring but what I can say was Usyk was in trouble. I am in fantastic shape. I will reschedule soon as I can. 2024 a massive year for team GK.'

Queenberry also shared a statement from Fury, reading: 'I am absolutely devastated after preparing for this fight for so long and being in such superb condition. I feel bad for everyone involved in this huge event and I will work diligently towards the rescheduled date once the eye has healed.

'I can only apologise to everyone affected including my own team, Team Usyk, the undercard fighters, partners, and fans as well as our hosts and my friends in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.'

Meanwhile, the Gypsy King's strength and conditioning coach - Blacklock - said Fury was in the best shape of his life ahead of the Usyk fight - claiming he was 'stronger and learner' than ever before.

Usyk said he couldn't help but laugh when he heard the Gypsy King had picked up an injury

Fury shared his body transformation on social media after his clash with Usyk was postponed

Fury agreed with Blocklock, sharing a picture of his slimmed down physique on Instagram. In the caption he said that Usyk would have been in 'trouble' fight the bout went ahead as planned.

However, Usyk's manager Egis Klimas went on a brutal X-rated rant and said Fury would 'do anything not to face' the IBF, WBA and WBO champion.

He is quoted by Ring Magazine as saying: 'Fury is a f****** coward who will do anything not to face Usyk, and he asked his b**** to hit him with a frying pan in his brow. You can quote me word for word for that.'

The undisputed title fight will now take place on May 18, with Fury and his team stating he will build on his new shape ahead of the rearranged bout in Saudi Arabia.