In a survey, over half said they regret not spending more time with grandparents

The offer has been launched during the final week of the easyJet Holidays sale

A tour operator is offering free holiday places for grandparents to travel with their family.

The move by easyJet Holidays followed research that showed half of families have never holidayed abroad with grandparents.

The 'first of its kind' offer will allow older relatives to travel free of charge on family bookings to several European destinations, including Spain, Greece and Italy.

The offer has been launched during the final week of the easyJet Holidays Big Orange Sale, in which customers can get up to £400 off until Monday.

In easyJet's survey of 2,000 British adults, just over half said they regret not spending more time with grandparents and were hoping to take them on upcoming holidays.

Easyjet Holidays will allow older relatives to travel free of charge on family bookings to several European destinations, including Spain, Greece and Italy

The new offer from easyJet Holidays aims to encourage the nation to take a ‘3G’ holiday – the term for getaways with three generations or more, after seeing a rise in this trend.

Seventy-seven per cent agree that the bond between grandparents and grandchildren is one of the most special relationships within a family – yet 27 per cent of Brits confess to speaking to their grandparents less than once a week.

Three quarters (73 per cent) would use the holiday opportunity to learn more about their grandparents' lives, with 49 per cent seeking to benefit from their wisdom, and 23 per cent believing going on holiday with them helps to bring the family closer.

The new offer from easyJet Holidays aims to encourage the nation to take a ‘3G’ holiday – the term for getaways with three generations or more, after seeing a rise in this trend

Seventy-seven per cent agree that the bond between grandparents and grandchildren is one of the most special relationships within a family

The most popular destinations for a multi-generational holiday abroad are Spain (18 per cent), Italy (13 per cent) and France (13 per cent).

However, 54 per cent say they would likely let their grandparents pick the destination if they were planning a trip together.

For half of Brits (45 per cent), the grandparents in the family are the bigger earners – either their own, or their parents/in-laws, but despite this only 35 per cent would expect a grandparent to contribute financially if they came on holiday with them, wanting to treat them instead.

Matt Callaghan, chief operating officer at easyJet Holidays, said: 'We're proud to offer thousands of free kids' places, but we feel it's time to recognise the grandparents.

'This research shows how important grandparent and grandchild relationships are and how much can be learned from making time for them.'

Limited spaces for Grans Go Free are on offer. To qualify, the grandparent must be travelling as part of a family booking with at least one child. Proof of age and relation will be taken upon arrival at the destination hotel.

Brits can book a free grandparent place from 12pm on Thursday 1st February. For more information about Grans Go Free and how to book, please visit www.easyjet.com/en/holidays/grans-go-free.