Michael Bisping will take on mixed martial arts legend Anderson Silva in London on February 27 month as he bids to finally secure a middleweight title shot.

And in the build-up, he will be writing exclusively for Sportsmail about the fight as well as his views on the burning issues in the UFC.

This week the middleweight stalwart talks about Anderson Silva's condescending manner as they came face-to-face in Los Angeles and how he still has another 13 or 14 pounds to lose before the big fight.

We had our open workouts in Los Angeles last week when I came face to face with Anderson Silva. I was walking by and said hello and wished him luck for London but he was very condescending.

He was trying to be humorous and was all fun and games but Anderson is always like that. We had a very light-hearted verbal sparring session, I didn't want to take it to the next level. I wanted to let him know how it's going to do down next week, of course, but that wasn't the time or the place for anything more serious. There's plenty of the time for that to happen.

When we square up for the media events next week, that's my chance to let this guy know I'm not messing around and that I'm not coming for fun and games. My entire life has been building up to this, it's the biggest fight of my life and I've trained accordingly and left no stone unturned.

Michael Bisping prepares for his fight with Anderson Silva during an open workout in Torrance last week

'The Count' drills his striking in the UFC training Octagon in California ahead of travelling to London

Silva takes part in the opening training session for the fans ahead of UFC Fight Night in London

Silva posted a photo on Instagram on Friday as he continued his preparations for the fight against Bisping

I'm not going in there to make friends or to put on a good performance, I'm in there to destroy this guy, to drag him into deep water and give him an experience that he wants to stop as soon as it starts. I'm going to make it very uncomfortable in there and I'll let him know that next week.

I think I can gain the mental edge on him and I'm sure he thinks he can gain it on me but I think he's cracking to be honest. The word is he wasn't going to show up for the open workouts and that the UFC had to coax him into turning up. Then his manager called my coach and asked him to get me to stop bringing up the steroids.

He can say whatever he wants about me, I respect the guy, he's a tough fighter, but he's done some things he needs to pay for and on February 27 I'll make him see the error of his ways. He's had one fight in the last two years, he tested positive before his last fight and he lost the two fights prior to that. He's feeling the pressure and I'm a terrible match-up for him.

Bisping throws a left high kick as he goes through his paces at the training facility in California

Bisping came face to face with Silva at the open workouts, two weeks before their fight in the UK

Former UFC middleweight champion Silva (right) spars with a training partner at the open workouts

All my hard training is done and I fly into London on Friday. I'll be getting situated in a hotel, situated in a training area and just focusing on making the weight. There won't be time for friends and family unfortunately, until the fight happens it is all business.

Making weight doesn't get easier, certainly as you get older it gets harder but I've had the help of a great nutritionist in Dan Garner. My weight is in the target area and I feel stronger than I ever have at this weight.

Typically when you lose weight you lose a bit of strength but that hasn't been the case this time. I've still got another 13 or 14 pounds to lose yet but that is a process I'm used to. It's not pleasant but it's part of the game.

Bisping is interviewed by members of the media following the open training session at the UFC Gym

Bisping trains last week in Torrance - but he still has another 13 or 14 pounds to lose before the big fight

The fight in London will be Silva's first since taking on Nick Diaz in Los Angeles in January 2015

Fight week can be very tiring. Even though England is my home, I'm away from my support network and creature comforts. I'm not sleeping in my own bed and I know that might sound stupid but the bed or the pillows might not be great and I'll be dealing with jet lag so might not get good sleep.

I'm living out of a suitcase, pulling out the same old crap every day, trying to find a pair of socks or underwear while running late because I've got to get to a media event. Then I have to make sure my team-mates are all good because they haven't been to the country before and they don't know what's going on.