Hope that Prince Harry could return to the royal fold is mounting after it was claimed the duke is 'willing' to step into a temporary role while King Charles battles cancer.

Harry, 39, reportedly told friends he would return to Britain to help with royal duties while his father undergoes cancer treatment.

The pair have had several 'warm exchanges' since the monarch's diagnosis with an unspecified type of cancer, it was claimed last night.

It comes after Harry suggested in a TV interview with Good Morning America that his father's illness could have a 'reunifying effect' on the family.

But royal expert Hugo Vickers told MailOnline that 'neither side' wants Harry and Meghan back in the UK, despite the perceived 'olive branch'.

He said: 'I personally, actually don't think that there's any wish on anyone's side for him to come home at the moment, and take up royal duties again.

'He can't suddenly pick up royal duties again, under the present circumstances, it's quite a long way [away]. It's always possible to reconcile. It's always possible for things to be sorted out, but not that quickly. So no, is the answer.'

King Charles III leaves The London Clinic with Queen Camilla by his side on January 29

King Charles and Queen Camilla attends the Sunday service at the Church of St Mary Magdalene on the Sandringham estate on February 11

Prince Harry and his wife Meghan Markle are in Canada staging a number of events for the Invictus Games

The royal expert continued: 'His father has never responded to any of the jibes that have come in his direction [and] has left the door wide open for [Harry].

'The other day, he came to see him and I would hope that was a tonic for the King. I don't know whether it was, but I hope so because he obviously loves his son.'

Harry, who stepped down as a working royal alongside his wife the Duchess of Sussex in 2020, is a counsellor of state but is not expected to take up any of the King's duties while he recovers.

A royal source earlier told The Times that Charles, 75, is keen to reconcile and see more of his son, and believes doing so would benefit the monarchy.

The source told newspaper: 'On all practical levels it makes perfect sense for the family to come together to support the King while he's sick.

'Much has been said on both sides in recent years, but that has never diminished the fundamental bond of blood, and there are now pragmatic aspects to consider, with the King and Kate's wellbeing -paramount in this.

'The details of the Clarence House meeting and subsequent conversations are private, but the feeling is that this arrangement could work.'

A written plan would reportedly need to be drawn up by Charles and his aides before Harry could return to taking on any official duties.

Last night, Buckingham Palace declined to comment on reports.

It comes after Harry suggested the King's illness could lead to a reconciliation with his father in an interview with a US breakfast show.

Harry also said 'I love my family' and that he was 'grateful' to be able to spend time with his father when he flew back to the UK last week.

The duke's whirlwind visit to see Charles for around 45 minutes prompted speculation the brothers, estranged since the duke stepped down as a working royal, may be on the point of rebuilding their relationship.

In the interview, aired on Good Morning America, it was suggested a family illness could have a 're-unifying effect'.

Meghan and Prince Harry were followed by a film crew led by Will Reeve, the son of the late Superman star Christopher Reeve

During a tour of the winter sports town of Whistler, which is hosting the 2025 Invictus Games alongside Vancouver, Prince Harry was interviewed by Will Reeve

Meghan Markle, Prince Harry and Will Reeve are seen in a trailer for the GMA interview today

Prince Harry and Meghan Markle with ABC presenter Will Reeve in Whistler on Wednesday

Prince Harry is spotted alongside American TV presenter Will Reeve in Whistler on Wednesday

While Meghan did not take part in the bobsledding yesterday, she was able to enjoy watching

Harry was asked 'is that possible in this case?' to which he replied he was sure.

The duke and his wife Meghan are in Canada staging a number of events with Invictus competitors to mark a year to go until Harry's Invictus Games, for wounded and sick veterans and military, is staged in the country.

They are being followed by a film crew led by Will Reeve, the son of the late Superman star Christopher Reeve, who interviewed Harry in the winter sports town of Whistler, which is hosting the 2025 Invictus Games alongside Vancouver.

Gesturing towards Invictus competitors, Harry added: 'Throughout all these families I see it on a day-to-day basis, the strength of the family unit coming together.

'I think any illness, any sickness brings families together.'

Buckingham Palace has not given details about Charles's cancer and Harry declined to divulge any information when asked about his 'outlook' on the King's health, replying 'that stays between me and him'.

But he said he would be visiting his father in the future: 'I've got other trips planned that would take me through the UK or back to the UK, so I'll stop in and see my family as much as I can.'

There was no meeting between the duke and his brother, the Prince of Wales, last Tuesday after Harry spent time with Charles at Clarence House.

The breakdown in the bond between the royal brothers can be traced back to the early period of Harry's relationship with wife Meghan when his then fiancee had a falling out with the Princess of Wales in the run-up to their wedding.

Since stepping down as working royals in 2020 and moving to California, the Sussexes have aired allegations and grievances against the monarchy and members of the royal family which have also soured relations.

Speaking to Reeve, Harry said: 'Look, I love my family.

'The fact that I was able to get on a plane and go and see him and spend any time with him, I'm grateful for that.'

For the Prince to return to royal life, a written plan would need to be drawn up by the King and his aides before Harry could return to any official duties and would not receive public funds

Harry said I 'love my family' and that he was 'grateful' to be able to spend time with his father when he flew back to the UK last week in the olive branch interview with US television

The duke was asked about his life in America, something he described as 'amazing', and whether he had contemplated becoming a US citizen, with the royal saying he had 'considered' it.

Harry added: 'The American citizenship is a thought that has crossed my mind but certainly not something that's a high priority for me right now.'

Asked how he 'processed' what was going on with his family in the UK, the royal replied: 'I have my own family, as we all do. My family, and my life in California is as it is.'

Meghan and Harry are bringing up their two children Prince Archie, aged four, and two-year-old Princess Lilibet in the celebrity enclave of Montecito in California.

The duke said: 'The kids are doing great, the kids are growing like all kids do very, very fast. They've both got an incredible sense of humour - make us laugh and keep us grounded every single day, as most kids do.

'I'm just very grateful to be a dad.'

During the interview, footage was shown of Harry trying the skeleton bobsleigh, one of the winter sports being introduced at the Invictus Games next year for the first time.

Harry said hosting the biennial Games, or the one year to go events, were his '...annual fix, to be amongst this community and have a laugh, have fun - no matter which nation they're from the banter's the same.

'I get a lot of energy just from being around these guys.'