More than four decades after it first aired, Peanuts executives are making amends for an iconic scene showing segregation as a black character sat away from others from the famed comic.

A new Apple TV special, called 'Welcome Home, Franklin,' began airing on the streaming platform on Friday. It gives Franklin, the first black character that was introduced in the late 1960s, a spotlight as he befriended Charlie Brown.

The new show comes after the controversial 1973 Thanksgiving special that displayed a scene where Franklin sat alone, on the opposite side of the dining room table across from the other characters, including Snoopy, who are white.

Many viewers have suggested the fact that Franklin sat by himself across from his white counterparts was discriminatory, along with the fact that he was placed in a lawn chair rather than a dinning chair like the others.

In the newest special, the dinner scene was recreated as a way to 'rectify' the original shot as Franklin was finally seated on the same side of the table with the other characters.

'We use the comic strip as our Bible and we build upon that. This story was one that we all really wanted to tell. Everybody loves Franklin. We just felt he deserved a lot of respect,' Craig Schulz, the executive producer of the new special said.

In the newest special on Apple TV, Franklin is seen interacting with the other characters on the same side of the table

The controversial dinner scene from the 1973 Thanksgiving special that airs every year on ABC. Franklin is seen by himself on one side of the table

'This is our chance to kind of rectify the whole thing.'

Craig, who is also the son of the original creator, Charles M. Schulz, told The Daily Beast that he hadn't realized the backlash that came with the scene until his son Bryan informed him of it.

The newest special featured Franklin as he moves into a new town in search of friends. He soon found the Peanuts gang, but struggled to fit in with them.

Franklin then discovered the Soap Box Derby race, and connected with Charlie Brown as the two built a car together and became best friends.

Raymond S. Persi, the director of the special, admitted he was excited to have the opportunity to highlight Franklin and make him the main character.

'Franklin is a confident kid, but he's never had the chance to show anyone who he really is,' Persi said.

'A special like this serves the same purpose as that first introduction of Franklin.'

'It's hopefully a reminder to people that we have a lot more in common that what we have different, and if we see each other on a personal level, we're going to connect, and we're going to be friends.'

Persi was also the one who suggested the dining room seen be recreated in the new special and said it was added to 'immediately get people to connect to that moment.'

In the scene, Franklin was first seated by himself before Linus told him that the group saved a seat for him on their side of the table.

The newest special featured Franklin as he moved into a new town in search of friends. He and Charlie Brown soon become close as they build a car together for the Soap Box Derby race

In the new special, Franklin is first seen on the other side of the table just before Linus tells him that a seat was saved for him on the other side

Charles, who died in February 2000, first introduced Franklin to the comic strip in July 1968, following the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

School teacher Harriet Glickman reached out to the creator and asked him to feature the first black character- something that had not yet been done.

Craig recalled his dad was 'blasted' for adding Franklin and the response 'really enlightened him on the anger that was in the world.'

'Newspapers refused to run those comics with Franklin in them in those days. And my dad said, "If you're not going to run it, that's fine with me. I'm just not going to write it",' Craig said.

The Thanksgiving episode, which airs every year on ABC, featured a holiday meal shared between the characters, after Peppermint Patty invited herself and others to Charlie Brown and Sally's house.

Many viewers went on to attack the creators for their decision and even refused to watch the hit special again because of the scene.

Craig said he tends to think about what his father would've done to try and correct the issue.

'So when the idea came up for the soapbox derby cars, that can be really fun, because it gives you the opportunity to have [Charlie Brown and Franklin] build something together and then capture the essence of the conversation of two children,' Craig said.

The team also made sure to lock in on the character's friendship as much as possible to emphasize the importance of their relationship.

Raymond S. Persi, the director of the special, admitted he was excited to have the opportunity to highlight Franklin and make him the main character

Persi revealed Franklin and Charlie Brown's animated car was designed to have a distinct sound to it, so for those who might not pay attention would have a 'mental cue' on the race.

Although the creators and animation team have tried to make amends for the controversial scene from more four decades ago, they are still aware that it won't fix the issue completely.

'The time in 1968 is similar to the time we have right now,' Craig said.

He added the relationship between Franklin and Charlie Brown in the new special is 'a powerful way to show that two people can come together if you just take it down to a basic level.'

'There's a lot of divisiveness, and a lot of anger in the world,' he said as he added that his hope is that families and children will tune in and understand the message they have tried to get across.

'It's part of being a kid. You're just not worried about all that outside stuff,' Persi said.