Few matches in Euro 2016 have left me glued to my chair but I am looking forward to watching France take on Germany in their semi-final.

As a club manager, when you have a player involved there is added interest and there is no doubt Dimitri Payet has been one of the stars of the tournament.

I understand that with his success, all the speculation about his future will follow. I have even seen one report suggesting I don’t want him to do well in case it leads to him leaving West Ham. That is not right. I want him to play great. I want him to score a hat-trick and another hat-trick in the final.

Slaven Bilic says there is 'no doubt' that West Ham's Dimitri Payet has been one of the Euro 2016 star players

The Irons boss wants the best for his player and would like to see Payet fire France to glory

The silky midfielder has been linked with a move to a European giant but Bilic says Payet is going nowhere

I know then that the giant clubs will come but I would love him to stay at West Ham. We have texted each other over the last three weeks and he is happy at the club. He is our player.

The great thing for him is that he has maintained his high level of performance, which is really difficult when you play at the top level.

With France, they are looking to give Dimitri the ball all the time and one of his biggest successes has been to silence all those who didn’t believe he would make it at international level.

The key to the match is that this will be the first game for France where the opposition is also going to attack them.

They are a young side, not so much in terms of age but tournament experience.

The Croatian is proud his player has proven himself at international level and dispelled doubts over his ability

Up to now, against Romania, Albania, Switzerland, Ireland and Iceland, the opposition were all defending. They conceded possession and tried to catch France on the counter-attack.

Here, though, Didier Deschamps’ team can expect a different game, which could be to their benefit. They have players — Antoine Griezmann, Paul Pogba, Payet and Olivier Giroud — who can hurt you.

They can hold the ball with Giroud, they can pass the ball with Payet and Griezmann, while Pogba and Blaise Matuidi can attack space without the ball. If France can defend well as a team, they have a big chance because I can see them hurting Germany.

As for Germany, many countries are looking for their ‘secret’. How do they continue to do well in tournaments?

France have plenty of players capable of firing them into their home final at Euro 2016 past Germany

There are always the same shallow answers — ‘they have a strong mentality’, ‘they work hard’, ‘they’re lucky’, that sort of thing.

My response is everyone works hard. It’s not a question of mentality. It’s more complicated than that. Back in 1998 Germany lost 3-0 to Croatia in a World Cup quarter-final. In Euro 2000 and Euro 2004 they went out in the first round. Even though they reached the 2002 World Cup final in between, they were not happy with the football they were producing and decided something needed to be done.

They totally changed their academy system, investing huge amounts of money into youth. They sent their coaches to Italy and Spain, not to copy but to learn from other countries.

They also began to bring through players of foreign extraction but born in Germany. I spoke to Joachim Low a few times when international coaches met for seminars and he told me that, out of the 23-man squad for the World Cup in South Africa, 11 were German-born but with family roots outside of Germany.

Joachim Low will try to stop Payet and Co with his all-conquering Germany side, who have grown up together

Back in 2004, they invested close to £100million in camps and academies. Every club in the two top divisions had to have a structured academy.

As a result, Germany’s under 17, 19 and 21 sides all won European Championships in 2009. That was a direct result of changing their academy system and investing money — but in a proper way.

That’s why they have done so well. Of course their strong character helps but they have the quality.

England have done this as well but more recently. Success doesn’t come overnight — it took Germany five years. In England, you have had one of the youngest teams in the tournament. You have to be patient.

The Germans have embraced players from all backgrounds and invested in coaching young players very well

We are in Seattle at the moment, in early pre-season but we have been watching the games on TV. My overriding impression of the tournament? It has been very average.

Some of the games, such as Italy versus Germany, were exciting on paper but didn’t really turn out that way. If you are a football fan and you are watching a good game, you don’t want it to stop.

In this tournament, we haven’t seen many like that. Yes, there have been some where you say: ‘OK, this is a good tactical game.’ But there have been others when you are thinking: ‘I want this game to finish but I have to watch it because it’s the Euros.’