Britain's boomer generation is prioritising travel rather than spending money on their grandchildren.

The research, conducted by YouGov on behalf of Co-op, found that almost a third of the nation's over 55s are choosing travel as the most valued way to spend their money.

It revealed that over a tenth (13 per cent) are choosing to spend on their children, and only a fifth (18 per cent) splurging on their grandchildren.

The older generation is prioritising living life to the fullest, and age isn't slowing them down. The research unveils a list of rather action-packed and far-flung travel experiences the nation's over 55s want to enjoy.

New research found that the over 55s are prioritising travel over spending on their grandkids - and it's revealed their top 10 'bucket list' experiences

High-altitude Machu Picchu in Peru came out as the number one destination for the over 55s in a ranking of 10.

While visiting the Antarctic (second) and seeing the Northern Lights (third), rounded out the top three travel experiences on their bucket lists.

In fourth place was taking a cruise, while a trip to Alaska ranked fifth and in sixth place was taking a safari.

Alongside visiting landmarks such as the Galapagos Islands (seventh) or seeing the Canadian Rocky Mountains (ninth), they have some out-of-this-world aspirations, with a trip into space even making its way into the top ten (eighth).

In tenth place was visiting the Norwegian Fjords.

However, when it comes to planning for the unexpected while away, many take a relaxed attitude.

Almost a quarter (24 per cent) of the UK’s over 55s said they never buy travel insurance when going on holiday, with almost a fifth (19 per cent) of those citing their age (11 per cent) or having pre-existing medical conditions (12 per cent) as the reasons why they believe they would be unable to get cover.

TOP TEN BUCKET LIST TRAVEL EXPERIENCES FOR THE OVER 55 1. Visit Machu Picchu 2. Visit the Antarctic 3. Seeing the Northern Lights 4. Taking a cruise 5. Visiting Alaska 6. Taking a safari 7. Visiting the Galapagos Islands 8. Taking a trip to space 9. Seeing the Canadian Rockies 10. Visiting the Norwegian Fjords Source Co-op Insurance Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/travel/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

High-altitude Machu Picchu in Peru came out as the number one destination for the over 55s

Graham Ward-Lush, Head of travel at Co-op Insurance, says: 'As our research shows, age doesn’t need to be a factor in stopping people from accomplishing those all-important travel goals, whether that be visiting an exotic destination or a world-famous landmark.

'However, whilst everyone should indeed be able to live life to the fullest, it is important that people plan ahead and protect themselves with travel insurance should the unthinkable happen.

'As with travel, age also shouldn’t be a factor in preventing people from protecting themselves with travel insurance, meaning they can continue to tick off those bucket list experiences with peace of mind should they be faced with an unexpected medical issue whilst abroad.'