A 14-bedroom Scottish Baronial mansion that once belonged to a 17th-century Lord is up for grabs for £4.2million.

The property is called Hartree House and is just outside of the town of Biggar, South Lanarkshire. It is for sale via estate agents Savills.

The mansion is in South Lanarkshire and sits in more than 22 acres of landscaped gardens, woods, parkland and lakes.

It enjoys far-reaching views across the surrounding countryside to the Tinto Hills to the west, the Broughton Hills to the east and the Pentland Hills to the north.

This Scottish Baronial mansion that once belonged to Lord Hartree is for sale for £4.2million

Parts of the property dates back to the 14th century, and significant parts of its original castle remain, including a turret

The main house includes this billiards room with a large fireplace and decorative panelled ceiling

The property extends across almost 20,000 square feet and has been fully restored by the current owners during the past decade.

The restoration includes a lift housed in The Cathedral Reading Room, where there is a vaulted glass-floored gallery.

Parts of Hartree date back to the 14th century, and significant parts of its original castle remain, including a turret.

The lower ground floor of the main house has been converted from storage cellars into a country-style kitchen and utility room.

The property once belonged to Lord Hartree, who was trained in law but is said to have made most of his money from his estates.

He was born in 1600 and become the MP for Peebleesshire in 1949/50. He died at Hartree Tower in 1653.

The property extends across almost 20,000 square feet and has been fully restored by the current owners

Outside, the fields have also been transformed to include a wildlife pond as well as an arboretum

The entrance has a majestic feel with a large door with an arched doorway and multi-coloured, decorative flooring

This hallway has more arched doorways, herringbone wood flooring and metallic wallpaper that adds a glamorous feel

There is a lift in The Cathedral Reading Room, where there also is a vaulted glass-floored gallery

The property extends across almost 20,000 square feet and has been fully restored by the current owners during the past decade

Outside, the fields have also been transformed to include a wildlife pond and arboretum.

Despite the quiet rural setting, the property has good access to transport links and city centres.

Edinburgh and Glasgow are less than 35 miles away, while the M74 is 12 miles away.

Carstairs railway station is 28 miles away and provides links to London via those two cities.

Edinburgh and Glasgow are also accessible by bus from the town of Biggar, which has a wide range of amenities, including schools, shops and professional services.

Local schools include Biggar High School, which is 0.8 miles away and Biggar Primary School.

Despite the quiet, rural setting, the property has good access to Edinburgh and Glasgow, which are both less than 35 miles away

The renovated property has retained some original touches including exposed brickwork

The property has 14 bedrooms, including this double bedroom with panelled window bays

Additional accommodation includes a lodge and two apartments, along with the tipi area in the garden

Jamie Macnab, of Savills, said: 'This extraordinary restoration has resulted in a beautifully decorated mansion house which boasts the highest quality fittings throughout.

'Its rural setting belies the excellent accessibility of Hartree House and there is significant income potential from hosting both weddings and holiday lets by capitalising on the lodge and two apartments, the tipi area or indeed the house itself.'

The property is in the South Lanarkshire town of Biggar, where the average price of a property solid during the past 12 months is £294,804.

It compares to £338,276 for the average sold across the same period for the country as a whole, according to property website Zoopla.