Alexa Chung caught the eye as she stepped out to the Simone Rocha show during London Fashion Week at St Bartholomew the Great church in the UK capital on Saturday.

The television presenter, 40, put on a leggy display in a bright red mini dress which featured a large bow to the front.

Model Alexa's one-shoulder garment left her bare skin on show and she wore a pair of ruby red ballet pumps for the outing.

She opted for a black leather handbag and accessorised with some dazzling earrings.

She was joined by Andrew Scott who looked dapper in a black suit and a pair of smart shoes to match.

Alexa Chung caught the eye as was joined by Andrew Scott at the Simone Rocha show during London Fashion Week at St Bartholomew the Great church in the UK capital on Saturday

All of Us Strangers star Andrew (right) was seen sitting on the front row alongside Alexa, who was joined by her boyfriend Tom Sturridge (left)

The actor, 47, appeared to go shirtless under his jacket and accessorised with a gold chain.

All of Us Strangers star Andrew was seen sitting on the front row alongside Alexa, who was joined by her boyfriend Tom Sturridge.

Actor Tom, 38, opted for a smart black suit which he teamed with a white shirt, wearing it open at the collar.

Meanwhile, Andrew was seen posing with his actress sister Hannah James-Scott.

Hannah, 39, wore a black dress and she was seen standing arm-in-arm with her older sibling.

She completed her look by wearing a brown leather coat for the event.

Elsewhere, Celeste opted for the same dress as Alexa but wore the piece in black.

The singer, 29, donned a pair of matching tights and opted for some black heels for the evening.

Actor Tom, 38, opted for a smart black suit which he teamed with a white shirt, wearing it open at the collar

The television presenter, 40, put on a leggy display in a bright red mini dress which featured a large bow to the front

Model Alexa's one-shoulder garment left her bare skin on show and she wore a pair of ruby red ballet pumps for the outing

Alexa appeared in good spirits as she posed at the show

Andrew was seen posing with his actress sister Hannah James-Scott, 39, wore a black dress and a brown leather jacket

Andrew Scott looked dapper in a black suit and a pair of smart shoes to match

She carried a pearl heart-shaped box purse with her and wore lashings of make-up.

Pixie Geldof showed off her elegant sense of style in a flowing pink skirt with a matching top.

The top featured flower detail on the neck and she opted for some black heels for the evening.

It comes after Andrew called for the ban of the phrase 'openly gay' shortly before his LGBTQ romantic fantasy film All of Us Strangers was released.

The Fleabag actor, who is gay, plays grieving screenwriter Adam alongside Normal People actor Paul Mescal, 27, in the flick, which was released on January 26.

The film explores loneliness and grief but is also a love story between Adam and Paul's character Harry.

Andrew said he believes the expression 'openly gay' should be retired as he feels it has negative connotations.

'I’m going to make a pitch for getting rid of the expression openly gay. Hear me out, it’s an expression that we actually only ever hear in the media. You’re never at a party and you say "this is my openly gay friend",' Andrew told The Hollywood Reporter.

Elsewhere, Celeste opted for the same dress as Alexa but wore the piece in black. The singer, 29, donned a pair of matching tights and opted for some black heels for the evening

She carried a pearl heart-shaped box purse with her and wore lashings of make-up

Pixie Geldof showed off her elegant sense of style in a flowing pink skirt with a matching top. The top featured flower detail on the neck and she opted for some black heels for the evening

Actor Douglas Booth looked smart in a black suit which he teamed with a white shirt, leaving it unbuttoned at the collar

'Why do we put openly in front of that adjective? We don’t say "you’re openly Irish". You don’t say "you’re openly left handed."

'There’s something in it. That’s a little near (the word) shamelessly.

'I’d nearly prefer shamelessly. Sometimes I just feel like if you’ve got to say it to understand it just say "out" possibly or, you know what, sometimes don’t say anything at all.

'I just think it's time to park it.'