Indulge your imagination - and potentially empty your bank account - with a stay at one of these top-tier hotel rooms, offering the suite-est views and the most 'bed'-azzling designs in the world of hospitality.

Elite Traveler - 'the eminent beacon guiding ultra-high-net-worth individuals through the opulent tapestry of global luxury living' - has drawn up its annual list of the 100 best hotel suites in the world for 2024. And they are, without exception, jaw-dropping.

Described as a 'definitive index of the most opulent, extravagant and decadent accommodations on the planet', the guide promises to take you on 'a journey of discovery'.

Elite Traveler said: 'Every suite in the database hits the minimum standard of five-star luxury, but the majority go above and beyond.

'Through detailed analysis, we have also given special mention to suites that meet exacting specifications for privacy, sustainability, fine dining and more.'

Below are some of the showstoppers that have made it onto this exclusive index - scroll down to the bottom to see the list in full. And for the most expensive suite on the list, which costs $125,000 (£100,000) a night - and comes complete with a basketball court and 28 TVs...

PRESIDENTIAL SUITE, HOTEL BEL-AIR, LA: 'Hotel Bel-Air is extravagant enough in its own right,' says Elite Traveler, 'but its glorious Presidential Suite takes unrivaled luxury to new heights. Proof? After a visit in the 1990s, King Charles III remarked that it was "like staying at a rich friend's home".' Stays start from $18,000 (£14,000) per night

GREAT HOUSE MASTER, NECKER ISLAND, BRITISH VIRGIN ISLANDS: Famously purchased for the modest sum of $180,000 in the 1970s, Richard Branson's Necker Island has a cult-like following in the world of private island lavishness. So says Elite Traveler, adding: 'Fast forward 44 years and the sublime island is not only the entrepreneur's home but also one of the most coveted, most luxurious and most exclusive vacation destinations in the world.' Sprawled across the entire top floor of the Balinese-style Great House, this one-bedroom suite keeps the standards up in style. Showstopper features include a 'roomy living room', three outdoor terraces, an outdoor tub and a pool with 180-degree views of the island. Stays start from $113,000 (£88,790) per night

THE WHITEHALL WING, RAFFLES LONDON AT THE OWO, UK: This stunning new hotel opposite Horse Guards Parade is, as Elite Traveler notes, set within the former Old War Office - Churchill's HQ during World War I - and is destined 'to become one of the most glamorous addresses in London'. And the most glamorous accommodation? The Whitehall Wing, which occupies the entire west wing of the building. Elite Traveler says: 'Accommodating up to 12 guests, the apartment spans six unique suites, each designed by the late French architect Thierry Despont. Expect lavish marble bathrooms, rich wooden panelling and floor-to-ceiling windows revealing sweeping views of the London skyline.' Price on application

THE PRIVATE RESERVE, GILI LANKANFUSHI, MALDIVES: According to Elite Traveler, this water villa promises a 'true castaway experience' with the only neighbours being 'those in the coral reefs below'. Part of Gili Lankanfushi, it is set 1,700ft (518m) away from the main resort and spread over 18,300 sq ft (1,700 sq m), making it the largest standalone water villa in the world, Elite Traveler claims. The duplex master suite comprises two bedrooms and a guest room while outdoor areas boast an infinity pool and a sea-level sundeck 'complete with catamaran nettings that allow direct access to the crystal-clear waters'. There is also a gym, private spa, cinema room and waterslides. Stays start from $13,775 (£10,835) per night

SUITE IMPERIALE, RITZ PARIS, FRANCE: The Suite Imperiale is 'stupendous', says Elite Traveler, adding: 'Inspired by the Château de Versailles, [it's] a homage to one-of-a-kind French glamour. The master bedroom is fit for a queen in more ways than one — it’s a replica of Marie Antoinette’s last boudoir, with a decadent silk-draped canopy bed.' In-suite features also include a fireplace, kitchen and two bathrooms. Stays start from $5,700 (£4,485) per night

THE LODGE, CAPELLA UBUD, BALI, INDONESIA: Capella Ubud, reveals Elite Traveler, is 'hidden away in Bali’s luscious rain-forests' and offers 'an uber-luxe take on camping'. It's made up of 22 one-bedroom tents and this two-bedroom lodge, which boasts 'the best views of the Keliki Valley' and has 'a decidedly indoor/outdoor setup'. Elite Traveler explains that 'the heated indoor pool flows to the outside and the living area follows suit', adding that guests can enjoy 'two bathrooms, one with a Japanese tub and one with a hand-hammered copper tub (above)'. Stays start from $2,500 (£1,965) per night

STAR DUNE SUITE, ANDBEYOND SOSSUSVLEI DESERT LODGE, NAMIBIA: This lodge is located in a 31,420-acre reserve in the Namibian desert, Elite Traveler explains. 'Few hotels in the world can compare', it says, likening the lodge's captivating surroundings to the surface of Mars. The Star Dune Suite, one of 10, 'features two large, separate bedrooms connected by a communal living area', with 'floor-to-ceiling windows framing the rocky views beyond'. All the suites have an outdoor terrace with a pool. 'Keep an eye out for passing oryx and zebra,' says Elite Traveler. Stays start from $3,695 (£2,903) per night

THE MARUKA SUITE, CONRAD MALDIVES RANGALI ISLAND, MALDIVES: Behold The Muraka suite, said to be the world's first underwater hotel residence, notes Elite Traveler, which continues: 'The two-story villa’s master suite sits 16ft beneath the ocean, encased in a 180-degree clear dome. This makes for out-of-this-world bedtime viewing as a rainbow assortment of reef fish glide by. The upper level also delivers on the "wow" factor with a sophisticatedly modern interior offering two further en-suite bedrooms, a lounge and a kitchen complete with a personal chef.' Stays start from $11,900 (£9,354) per night

ROYAL MANSION, ATLANTIS THE ROYAL, DUBAI, UAE: Of the 795 rooms at the Atlantis The Royal hotel, 'the aptly named Royal Mansion is the most extravagant of all', says Elite Traveler. The two-level penthouse has its own private foyer 'dotted with olive trees' and 'an enormous terrace complete with an infinity pool overlooking the Arabian Sea'. The accommodation sleeps up to nine adults across four bedrooms and features a dining room, entertainment room, library and bar. Stays start from $100,000 (£78,610) per night

IMPERIAL SPA VILLA, PORTO ZANTE VILLA, ZAKYNTHOS, GREECE: Porto Zante takes the privacy of its guests seriously, says Elite Traveler, and this suite 'has enough to keep everyone happy behind closed doors', with the publication revealing that it covers 4,500 sq ft and has two private pools. There's also an alfresco dining area 'offering sunset views over neighbouring Kefalonia'. 'As dreamy as it gets' is the conclusion. Stays start from $18,500 (£14,560) per night

HAUTE COUTURE EIFFEL SUITE, HOTEL PLAZA ATHENEE, PARIS, FRANCE: It's no wonder this suite features among Elite Traveler's 'top city suites', with its 'couture fabrics', lipstick-pink furnishings, grand fireplace, wrought-iron balcony and Eiffel Tower views. 'Gazing at the monument from your sumptuous suite as if it were close enough to touch, as if it were a view framed just for you, well, that’s the stuff of legends,' the magazine says. Stays start from $20,000 (£15,720) per night

SINGITA LEBOMBO LODGE, LEBOMBO VILLA, KRUGER NATIONAL PARK, SOUTH AFRICA: Lebombo Lodge’s organic design was inspired by eagles’ nests in the nearby cliff faces. So says Elite Traveler, which awards the hotel's Lebombo Villa a place in its 'top family suites' category. There are 'unobstructed views' of Kruger National Park from the suite and the Big Five - lions, leopards, elephants, rhino and buffalo - can be spotted from its private deck (pictured). 'There are two two-bedroom suites, which can be combined to make an exclusive-use villa with a private swimming pool, two plunge pools and an expansive dining space,' the magazine adds. Stays start from $16,026 (£12,600) per night

GRAND PRESIDENTIAL SUITE, TAJ LAKE PALACE, UDAIPUR, INDIA: Taj Lake Palace Udaipur is a former royal palace in the middle of Lake Pichola, with Elite Traveler urging those who want maximum royal treatment to book the Grand Presidential Suite. The magazine says: 'The one-bedroom suite includes amenities such as a personal butler, a hot tub, panoramic views across the lake and Udaipur, and a private dining room with round-the-clock butler service.' Stays start from $7,683 (£6,040) per night

LAPA VILLA, LAPA RIOS LODGE, PUERTO JIMENEZ, COSTA RICA: Lapa Rios Lodge is located in the Osa Peninsula rainforest, amid jaguars, macaws, monkeys, turtles and tapir, reveals Elite Traveler, which declares that the most 'jaw-dropping' accommodation options there are the four Lapa Villas'. The magazine says: 'Perched just above the canopy, where leaves break to reveal sky, the suites have sweeping views down to the ocean, a view best enjoyed from the plunge pool submerged into the deck of the outdoor terrace.' Stays start from $2,444 (£1,920) per night

L'APPARTEMENT, AIRELLES COURCHEVEL, COURCHEVEL 1850 SKI RESORT, FRANCE: Set in a 'pastel-pink Austro-Hungarian castle', this suite is a 'hotel within a hotel', with 'its own spa - complete with a waterfall feature, sauna, sensory shower and ice fountain - as well as a cinema and children’s playroom', says Elite Traveler, which adds: 'Each bedroom has a dressing room, en-suite bathroom, with a hammam, and balcony. Should guests still be hungry for mountain air, a 1,600-sq-ft private terrace and outdoor Norwegian bath await.' Stays start from $28,287 (£22,230) per night

GUEST SUITE, WILDERNESS VUMBARA PLAINS, LECHOMOS, BOTSWANA: 'Suites at Wilderness Vumbura Plains put guests closer to the wildlife action than you’d think possible,' says Elite Traveler. 'Set on the water’s edge with unobstructed views out across Botswana’s Okavango Delta, the suites are designed to appear as if they float above the ground with contemporary architecture mixing wood, glass and canvas. Each of the camp’s thatch-roof suites has its own viewing deck and outdoor plunge pool. In place of walls, the accommodations have canvas sheets, truly putting guests in the heart of the wild landscape.' Stays start from $1,650 (£1,300) per night

THE PLATINUM POD, ECHO BASE, WHITE DESERT, ANTARCTICA: 'The fabulously futuristic Echo Base is the perfect destination for those seeking the most remote of locations,' says Elite Traveler. 'Where else but the seventh continent, Antarctica?' This 'otherworldly' camp comprises six pods with floor-to-ceiling windows that bring the 'mesmerising vistas of the ice-covered landscape straight to the comfort of your bed'. The magazine continues: 'The one-bedroom Platinum Pod, Echo Base’s most spacious suite, is also the most secluded, too - not that you’d really need to seek more privacy in the most isolated of locations.' Stays start from $104,000 (£81,736) per night

THE INDIAN SUITE, THE FIFE ARMS, BRAEMAR, ABERDEENSHIRE, SCOTLAND: The 19th-century Fife Arms is a 'bona fide jewel of the luxury hotel scene in Scotland', says Elite Traveler, and a stay in its Indian Suite 'feels akin to being a guest of old-world royalty'. Stays start from $1,152 (£905)

STERLING SUITE, THE LANGHAM, LONDON, UK: This suite, at 4,844 sq ft (450 sq m) one of the largest in London, boasts six bedrooms, five bathrooms, a dining room and kitchen, a media room, walk-in wardrobes and expansive drawing room with a grand piano. Elite Traveler adds: 'Guests of the suite also have 24/7 butler service and access to the Langham Club, which is only accessible for guests staying in executive suites.' Stays start from $27,000 (£21,220) per night

PENTHOUSE SUITE, GSTAAD PALACE, GSTAAD, SWITZERLAND: 'The signature Penthouse Suite, accessible via a private elevator, features three bedrooms with a large living room and dining area,' says Elite Traveler. 'Extra touches such as the wine cabinet, humidor and fireplace give the suite that extra vintage elegance Gstaad is renowned for. The decor is distinctly Swiss, with engraved wooden furnishings, gingham touches and velvet upholstery. Step out onto the terrace to see the suite’s 360-degree views of Saanenland’s sun-drenched landscape [above]. The terrace is also home to a hot tub, and a sauna is tucked within the castle’s turret.' Stays range from $1,000 (£785) to $4,999 (£3,928) per night

ANDBEYOND PHINDA HOMESTEAD, SOUTH AFRICA: 'Seeking a quintessential South African safari experience in seemingly boundless luxury?' asks Elite Traveler. If yes, it strongly suggests the andBeyond Phinda Homestead. The magazine says: 'Found in the heart of the 73,800-acre Phinda Private Game Reserve, where cheetah, black rhino, lion, leopards, elephants and more roam freely and boldly, the exclusive-use villa promises wildlife sightings galore.' What's more, there are 'four spacious bedrooms, as well as plentiful communal areas culminating in the fun interactive kitchen'. And guests 'are also treated to dedicated butler, chef, ranger and tracker services, with the entire vacation — from game drives to mealtimes — completely customizable'. Stays start from $7,875 (£6,190) per night

THE RESIDENCE, INTERCONTINENTAL GENEVA, SWITZERLAND: Elite Traveler describes this suite as 'an eyrie overlooking glimmering Lake Geneva'. It's situated on the 18th floor of 'the thoroughly refurbished', 1960s-era InterContinental Geneve - 'the lair of umpteen dignitaries and celebutantes'. What can deep-pocketed guests expect? 'A duet of pied-a-terre-like sections, each with grand bedrooms, personal living areas, separate dining rooms and floor-to-ceiling windows,' says Elite Traveler. Stays start from $27,000 (£21,220) per night

PENTHOUSE RESIDENCE, THE ALPINA GSTAAD, SWITZERLAND: The Alpina Gstaad, perched on a hillside overlooking Gstaad ski village, is home to this two-storey suite, which 'features five bedrooms, a dining room and a fully equipped kitchen, spread over an enormous 5,600 sq ft'. Stays start from $100,000 (£78,610) per night

JEWEL SUITE BY MARTIN KATZ, LOTTE NEW YORK PALACE, NEW YORK: This 'gem', on the 20th floor of 'New York's first five-star hotel' was designed in collaboration with renowned jeweler Martin Katz' and was inspired by his love of architecture, fine art, jewel tones, wine and rare cars, says Elite Traveler. 'Upon entering the suite’s grand two-story salon, a cascading chandelier spills from above,' it says. 'Guests of the suite get a number of extras, too, like a Maybach car service and a diamond ring designed by Katz himself.' Stays start from $25,000 (£19,680) per night

LAKE VIEW ROYAL SUITE, BURGENSTOCK HOTEL & ALPINE SPA, SWITZERLAND: 'Words - nay, not even an entire choir singing alto voce from a stage at nearby Lucerne’s Jean Nouvel-designed concert hall, renowned for its astonishing acoustics, can express the glorious wonders of Bürgenstock Hotel and Alpine Spa,' declares Elite Traveler. 'Arriving by catamaran, chaperoned by swans, you’ll ascend a mountain by vintage funicular to check into the resort complex, poised on a cliff overlooking the shimmering lake.' Where to stay there? The magazine says: 'Take repose in the spacious 3,315-sq-ft Lake View Royal Suite, where you can play your personal Steinway piano, enjoy your personal sauna or bathe in your window-side hot tub, in awe of the views.' Stays start from $17,000 (£13,380) per night

CAPELLA SUITE, CAPELLA SYDNEY, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA: This 'extravagant' ninth-floor suite in the 'top new suites' category, notes Elite Traveler, overlooks the historic Sandstone Precinct and Royal Botanic Gardens. It features 'dramatic floor-to-ceiling windows and a super king-size bed topped with custom Italian Frette linens', with the publication adding that 'there’s also a cozy living room complete with a fireplace and marble bar' and declaring that it 'loves the look of it all'. Stays start from $790 (£620) per night

THE POST HOUSE, POST RANCH INN, BIG SUR, CALIFORNIA: Guests checking in to the two-bedroom Post House at this 'rustically elegant outpost' luxuriate in a 1,800-sq-ft 'oasis of grandeur with kitchen and designer appliances, a media room, and dining room', with Elite Traveler adding that 'the master bedroom and living area open to a huge backyard and patio area, enlivened with a hot tub'. Stays start from $5,200 (£4,080) per night

SIGNATURE SUITE, ADARE MANOR, IRELAND: Adare Manor is a 'gorgeous Neo-Gothic manor hotel', says Elite Traveler, with its Signature Suite 'full of delighting details', from historical wall hangings to Georgian-inspired furniture. Stays from $2,360 (£1,860) per night

PENTHOUSE SUITE, THE POST OAK HOTEL AT UPTOWN HOUSTON: What do you get for $125,000 (£100,000) a night (with a two-night minimum stay)? A lot. As multi-millionaires booking into this suite - the most expensive on the list - will find out. Elite Traveler lists some of the highlights: 22,000 sq ft of space, 108 hand-selected slabs of marble, 23 chandeliers, 17 pieces of original artwork, a heated swimming pool, a kitchen, and 28 televisions. Did we miss anything? Yes. There's also a half-court basketball playground, a gym and wet sauna, an interactive games room, and a personal theater room – complete with a popcorn machine, snacks and refreshments

For more visit elitetraveler.com/travel/hotel-news/top-100-suites-2024.