Britney Spears kept it 'classy' as she showed off her outfits and her moves in two dancing videos shared on Friday evening.

The pop star, 42, said she wore 'nude colors' rather than a swimsuit in the caption of an Instagram clip of herself twirling in a patterned crop top and black micro shorts.

She sang and danced to the tune of Tracy Chapman's 1995 hit song Give Me One Reason while sporting a pair of knee-high boots with tall heels.

'Nude colors to keep it classy you know,' she wrote alongside several face palm emojis as well as a speak-no-evil monkey and a red rose. 'Was gonna wear a bathing suit but!!!'

The Gimme More hitmaker — who claimed she 'flew' a plane through turbulence in a post from Wednesday — later shared another video of herself after having changed into a bikini.

Britney Spears kept it 'classy' as she showed off her outfits and her moves in two dancing videos shared on Friday evening. The Gimme More hitmaker later shared another video of herself after having changed into a bikini

Just minutes later, Spears shared a different clip of herself dancing to another song and wearing another look.

'I just decided to put my bathing suit on,' she wrote in the caption of a clip of herself dancing in a hot pink bikini top with gold chains and hardware.

She also sported a tiny pair of striped shorts and had changed into a pair of white, knee-high boots.

In the prior video, she had been wearing black boots and shorts to go with her midriff-baring, wrap-style blouse.

At one point in her second video of herself dancing in her swimwear, she yelled: 'Ready? OK!' It was a rare moment of hearing her voice as she does not often share videos of herself talking.

The Grammy winner was then seen showing off her best runway walk and swaying her hips while biting her lip.

In both videos, she looked to be in high spirits — especially after she decided to just go for it and dance in her bikini — as she flashed her big, wide smile.

As per usual when she danced, she moved her entire body to the rhythm and also kept flipping her bleach blonde beach waves.

First, the pop star, 42, said she wore 'nude colors' rather than a swimsuit in the caption of an Instagram clip of herself twirling in a patterned crop top and black micro shorts. She sang and danced to the tune of Tracy Chapman's 1995 hit song Give Me One Reason while sporting a pair of knee-high boots with tall heels

'Nude colors to keep it classy you know,' she wrote alongside several face palm emojis as well as a speak-no-evil monkey and a red rose. 'Was gonna wear a bathing suit but!!!' Just minutes later, Spears shared a different clip of herself dancing to another song and wearing another look

'I just decided to put my bathing suit on,' she wrote in the caption of a clip of herself dancing in a hot pink bikini top with gold chains and hardware

She also sported a tiny pair of striped shorts and had changed into a pair of white, knee-high boots. She was then seen showing off her best runway walk and swaying her hips while biting her lip

In both videos, she looked to be in high spirits — especially after she decided to just go for it and dance in her bikini — as she flashed her big, wide smile

In the video, she was also seen lip-syncing to the song and feeling the music.

The pop sensation has been keeping her 42.5 million followers entertained and updated on her life as she also shared another fun, interesting post on Wednesday.

Earlier this week, she shared a series of pictures she snapped while on a private jet.

In the caption, she claimed that she jumped into the cockpit and even briefly flew the plane while they were experiencing turbulence.

'We hit a little turbulence but I flew the plane for a minute in the cockpit!!!' she wrote in the post, which also included a video of her trying on the pilot's glasses and having a blast.