Nostalgic Australians are rushing to Big W after discovering the store is selling a popular toy from their childhood.

Shoppers are abuzz at the news the newest generation of Littlest Pet Shop toys have hit the retailer's shelves, months after they were launched in the US.

The adorable animal collectables come in pairs for $24 or a trio for $19 and there are more than 65 varieties to collect.

A Melbourne customer shared their excitement over the release online after spotting the toys in stores.

'This is your sign to RUN to Big W to buy the new LPS, for the nostalgia,' they said.

Shoppers are abuzz at the news the newest generation of Littlest Pet Shop toys have hit Big W shelves months after it was launched in the US

The adorable animal collectables come in a pack of pairs for $24 or trio for $19 with over 65 varieties to collect

Others were keen to get their hands on the collectable toys and were sharing which Big W stores they have seen them in.

'I NEED, OMG, this is a sign the world is healing now,' one woman said.

'When I was a kid I never got any LPS but I loved the TV show so this is literally healing my inner child,' a second wrote.

'Thank you for posting this! I've been waiting to see if they'd be released in Australia considering the past new ones only got released in America,' a third replied.

'Omg. little me is so happy. I hope these continue so that my kids in the future can collect them,' added another.

Littlest Pet Shops toys are based on characters from the 1995 TV show of the same name which were discontinued but relaunched in 2005.

The new Series One Generation Seven figurines include bobble-headed animals includes a panda, cat, axolotl and anteater

Since the first launch 20 years ago there have been several 'generations' of the toys with three series each.

The new Series One Generation Seven bobble-headed animal figurines include a panda, cat, axolotl and anteater.

The all-new Littlest Pet Shop Petfluencer Pairs Collectable Figures with Virtual Code have two pets and a collectable card for each pet with its unique personality, breed, and rarity level.

The buys are available in Big W stores or online, however if purchased online the packs will be picked at random.

Those who are after a specific variant are advised to visit their local Big W store.