Liverpool must be ruthless - Jurgen Klopp has to hang on to two-point lead until title clash with Man City - It's All Kicking Off podcast

The ex-Chelsea star insisted the winger was number one in terms of ability

Eden Hazard had a surprising pick for most talented team-mate of his career

Eden Hazard has insisted one of his former Chelsea team-mates was the most talented footballer he ever played with.

During his seven-year spell at Stamford Bridge, Hazard shared the pitch with some of the club's most iconic stars including the likes of Frank Lampard, Didier Drogba and John Terry.

The Belgian's ill-fated move to Real Madrid in 2019 would see him rubbing shoulders with even more of the sport's greatest talents.

However, when asked on the Obi One Podcast, hosted by ex-Chelsea star John Obi Mikel, which of his former team-mates had the most talent, the 33-year-old had a surprising answer.

'In Real Madrid I play with the best player in the world. For me [Luka] Modric, [Karim] Benzema, they are top top of the list,' Hazard said during the podcast.

Eden Hazard picked a former Chelsea star as the most talented player he ever played with

But the Belgian did not select any of his established former colleagues at Stamford Bridge

Your browser does not support iframes.

'When you say Kevin De Bruyne, he's top on the list, when you say [Frank] Lampard he's top of the list, Juan Mata for me was top of the list.

'I'm gonna give you one name and John knows the player. The only one I was saying "wow" but when I stopped playing young team you know in France was Gael Kakuta.

'You asked me talent. Kakuta by far number one. Talent. I mean, talent. Wow.'

Kakuta's arrival in west London would prove to be the cause significant controversy, with FIFA later handing the winger a four-month ban and announcing a transfer ban on Chelsea after they were ruled to have induced him to break his contract with Lens.

However, an appeal to Court of Arbitration for Sport later reversed the decision ruling that the France youth international did not have a valid contract with Lens.

Despite his legal issues being resolved, Kakuta struggled to break into the first-team at Chelsea, being repeatedly sent out on loan and making just 16 appearances before departing the club permanently in 2016.

While he was unable to showcase his immense potential in the Premier League, Hazard added Kakuta's talent was evident even prior to his senior career at the Blues.

Gael Kakuta made just six Premier League appearances in eight years at Chelsea

However Hazard insisted the winger had a special level of natural ability from a young age

'You know, I play I play against him a lot when because I used to play in Lille and he was playing in Lens,' Hazard continued.

'You know, it's a derby, it's the north of France. So me being me. We used to win every game every game every game five, six zero.

'Me: best player every game. And then every time we play against him, we're losing game. He's the best player. He's the best player. This is not normal.

'I think now is easy to say but I think it went a bit too early [to] Chelsea. He was 16 when he when he when he left France for Chelsea, you know? And that step at 16 is a huge step.'

Now aged 32 and playing for Ligue 2 side Amiens, Kakuta represented the DR Congo at the Africa Cup of Nations

Kakuta later returned to Lens, enjoying some of the best form of his career at the Stade Bollaert-Delelis, and was the club's top goalscorer in Ligue 1 in the 2020-21 season with 11.

In 2022, Kakuta rejoined Amiens and has played 16 times for Omar Daf's side in the French second tier this season.

Now aged 32, Kakuta represented the DR Congo at the Africa Cup of Nations in January, making four appearances as they were eliminated by eventual winners the Ivory Coast in the semi-finals.

Eden Hazard was speaking on the Obi One Podcast.