Eat your heart out, Father Ted.

This stunning island off the Irish coast - reminiscent of the fictional Craggy Island in the 90s Channel 4 sitcom that shares its name with the title character - is up for sale and could be yours for less than a million euros.

Representing 64 acres of 'uninhabited solitude', Middle Calf Island, off Ireland's south coast, boasts a gorgeous private beach, abundant wildlife and views across the 'wild' Atlantic Ocean. So says Vladi Private Islands, the company tasked with selling it.

The firm's CEO, Farhad Vladi, told MailOnline Travel that it is expected to sell for less than €1million (£866,000) - significantly less than the average price of a flat in Westminster, which currently sits at £1.22million, according to Foxtons. And around the average price of a London house.

A property listing for the island, which is part of Ireland's Co. Cork region, says the land was last inhabited before WWII and features several ruins. It is also home to around 25 Kerry Bog Ponies, which graze there year round and are included in the sale.

Scroll down for breathtaking images of the island. Could you live out your life like Father Ted there?

Behold Middle Calf Island, a 64-acre uninhabited private island situated off the West Cork coast of Ireland. The land is being sold by Vladi Private Islands and is expected to sell for less than €1million (£866,000)

The island features 'the ruins of four dwellings and outbuildings and many stone walls'

Vladi Private Islands says the island does not have a pier but does feature 'beautiful beaches' (above)

The land mass (front) is among several islands situated between the town of Schull, on mainland Ireland, and Cape Clear Island

Middle Calf Island is located between West Calf and East Calf Islands

The island is currently being farmed and is home to a herd of around 25 Kerry Bog Ponies (pictured), which graze there year round, according to the listing. 'It was also previously grazed by sheep,' it adds

Six families once lived a self-sufficient life on the island, according to the listing. 'A school was set up there in 1835 which was also attended by pupils from neighbouring communities,' it says, adding: 'In 1841, the population of the island was 39. The last family left the island in 1937'

The island offers views across Cape Clear Island in one direction and 'the vast stretches of the wild Atlantic' in the other, says Vladi Private Islands

Outline Planning Permission for the reconstruction of a ruined building 'for use as a dwelling' and for the 'reconstruction of outbuildings for ancillary use' was previously granted but has now expired, Vladi Private Islands explains

The potential new owner could enjoy magnificent walks on the island, which offers stunning scenery including several lakes