The Uruguayan's chipped finish opened the scoring in the Reds 4-1 victory

Former Liverpool striker Michael Owen has questioned the thinking behind Darwin Nunez's audacious finish in the Reds 4-1 win over Brentford.

The Uruguayan opened the scoring at the Gtech Community Stadium on Saturday, by scoring one of the cheekiest goals of the season.

After Liverpool counter-attacked from the Bees box, Diogo Jota headed the ball into Nunez's path, and the forward beat goalie Mark Flekken one-on-one with a delightful chipped finish.

After the game, Owen took to X to hail Nunez's finish, but also suggested it was proof that player is still learning how to become a great Premier League striker.

'That finish from Darwin Nunez yesterday was insane.' Owen posted.

Michael Owen took to social media to heap praise on Darwin Nunez's goal for Liverpool

Darwin Nunez opened the scoring against Brentford with a clever chipped finish on Saturday

The finish was described as 'insane' by Owen who also praised the player Nunez is becoming

Your browser does not support iframes.

'I can’t stop watching it. And I can’t begin to explain how difficult a skill that is. Moving at pace, the ball running away from you, being inside the box with no room for error.

Incredible. BUT, it is also further proof that if he is to get closer to becoming the great player many people think he can be, he has to adapt his way of thinking. '

In a lengthy post by the former England star, Owen gave an insight to the goal and admitted his surprise that the Reds number nine even considered going for that type of finish.

Adding: "I mean, to even consider that finish is madness. It’s a 1 in 10, 2 in 10 finish at best.

'Learning to slot, dink or go round the GK is a far more productive way to score and will increase his chances to 4 or 5 in 10, thus massively increasing his end return. I’m really not trying to rain on his parade as that goal was pure class.

'But I’d rather see it when Liverpool are 3-0 up, not at 0-0!'

The classy strike was the 24-year-old's 13th goal in all competitions this season, meaning he's well on the way to surpassing last season's total of 15 for the club.

That is a QUALITY finish 😮‍💨



A fantastic Liverpool counter-attack finished off in style by Darwin Núñez 👏 pic.twitter.com/HPr202EX23 — Football on TNT Sports (@footballontnt) February 17, 2024

Darwin Nunez has now scored 13 goals in all competitions for Liverpool so far this campaign

Michael Owen shared his thoughts in a long post on social media after seeing Nunez's goal

Unfortunately for Nunez he wasn't able to complete the match against the Bees, with the forward taken off at half-time with a suspected injury.

Asked about the injury after the game, Jurgen Klopp confirmed it was just a precautionary measure and Nunez should be ok for next weekend's Carabao Cup Final against Chelsea.

However, the Liverpool boss could be without Diogo Jota who left the field in a stretcher and could face time on the sidelines.

Further goals from Alexis Mac Allister, the returning Mohamed Salah and Cody Gakpo, saw Liverpool run out comfortable winners against Thomas Frank's side, and means they remain top of the Premier League - two points clear of second placed Arsenal.