Chelsea star Conor Gallagher's girlfriend Aine Kennedy danced in the stands as supporter's chanted the midfielder's name following his match winning display against Crystal Palace on Monday night.

Gallagher took a starring role against Crystal Palace, with the one-time Eagles loanee scoring twice at Selhurst Park.

The 24-year-old's second goal in stoppage time gave the Blues a 2-1 lead, with Enzo Fernandez adding a third in the closing seconds.

Kennedy, 26, shared Instagram stories from the Chelsea away end during the 3-1 victory to show her support for Gallagher.

The Irish model and professional dancer shared a post of the Blues celebrations after Enzo Fernandez's clinching goal with the caption 'Our boys'.

Connor Gallagher's girlfriend Aine Kennedy shared clips from the away end on Monday night

Kennedy danced along as Chelsea fans chanted Gallagher's name after his second goal

Gallagher's two goals helped Chelsea earn a crucial 3-1 away win against Crystal Palace

Your browser does not support iframes.

Kennedy was also captured by Djina Petrovic, the wife of goalkeeper Djordje, dancing as Chelsea supporters sang Gallagher's name after his second goal.

She reshared the clip adding the caption 'Just so happy, you are fabulous.’

Kennedy and Petrovic, a former Miss Serbia, posted clips at full-time of the Chelsea players applauding the away support following the victory.

Gallagher had earned the acclaim of the Cheslea support after the academy product's match winning performance.

The England international had brought the Blues level in the second half, cancelling out Jefferson Lerma's stunning opener for the hosts.

Gallagher put the Blues ahead in the 91st minute, calmly slotting beyond Palace goalkeeper Dean Henderson.

His strike prompted jubilant scenes in the away end, with celebrations between players and supporters causing an advertising board in front of the away fans to give way.

Axel Disasi was spotted launching himself backwards on top of several fans that had encroached to join their team, as the defender attempted to crowd surf.

Djina Petrovic, the wife of goalkeeper Djordje, shared a clip of players applauding the fans

Kennedy hailed Gallagher as 'fabulous' following his match winning performance on Monday

Gallagher's long-term girlfriend Kennedy is an Irish model and professional dancer

Gallagher's two goals meant the midfielder has three in two games for the club, after previously enduring a 34-game goal drought.

Enzo Fernandez sealed the victory in the fourth minute of stoppage time, with the result easing pressure on manager Mauricio Pochettino as Chelsea climbed back into the top half.

Pochettino had hailed Gallagher as 'priceless' post-match.

'He's a player with great commitment with the team,' Pochettino said.

'Always trying to compensate every situation in an offensive and defensive situation and that is priceless to have a player like him.

'I'm so happy for him and I'm so happy for the team because it's a victory we needed, the three points to confirm the reaction after Wolverhampton.

'It was a very good game against Aston Villa and it was a great opportunity.'