Wrong questions, Mr Hammond. You are asking the wrong questions

Resources: Mr Hammond has said that he 'would rather lose a battalion than send troops into battle without the resources they need.'

Today you are reported as saying that you "would rather fire soldiers than go to war with poor equipment" – but that is not the choice. The same report says also that you "would rather lose a battalion than send troops into battle without the resources they need."

But men are resources too. (Look at Lanchester.) And when the Labour government, which you rightly criticise, sent our men into Helmand to start the disastrous campaign there, they sent in insufficient. Has no one learned from that?

The questions must begin with the capability you wish the Armed Forces to have. Then you must ask how to pay for them. If someone higher up the ladder tells you there is insufficient money, then it is your responsibility to tell the Prime Minister that without the money he cannot have what he wants. (It would be helpful if you told him also that when the Defence of the Realm is the first priority of government, Defence finance has first priority, too, well above overseas aid to countries that have no need for it.)

So what do you want done? The British Isles protected and our overseas interests defended? Right, then we need an Army of 150,000 with 130,000 possibly acceptable for the interim period while we reorganise to overcome the damage inflicted by the last government's insane cuts and your government's risible and lethal Strategic Defence & Security Review (SDSR 2010).

You cannot afford the cost of 150,000 soldiers? Then reduce the scale of commitments your government is willing to undertake.

It is not a choice between adequate numbers and the provision of essential equipment. It is the measure of sufficient numbers against the possible commitments the government may be forced to accept. Smoke and mirrors will not hide that.

With relevance to commitments it is worth noting that SDSR 2010 made no mention of the Arab Spring, nor of North Africa, nor of the Mediterranean, and yet we went to war (in the loosest sense) with Libya, under the pretext of enforcing a no-fly zone, to bomb trucks and road blocks. For this we used Tornados based in England because the Ark Royal and the Harriers had been retired, and the Typhoons asked for those Tornados to fly with them because they did not have the equipment to bomb accurately and needed a buddy to laser designate for them.



Commitments: Cuts to defence should not be a choice between adequate numbers and the provision of essential equipment. The government may be forced to accept that they have to curtail their commitments.

"There's no point in having a cardboard Army," you are quoted as saying. "We want a real Army with real equipment and real fighting capability." That is admirable. Every soldier and every patriotic elector will agree with you. Now tell the Prime Minister.

"And it's a moral imperative. You cannot send people into danger without the proper equipment – and that is what we were doing in 2007 and 2008. when we had the scandals around body armour and helicopters." Yes, true, but whereas we are informed that the body armour issues are resolved, we still have inadequate Air support, of which the helicopter shortage is only one manifestation.

And you spoke of morale, and that you cannot insulate soldiers "from change because the world is changing around us." Smoke and mirrors again, Mr Hammond. It is not change that is destroying morale; it is that the MoD, your department, behaves dishonourably in so many ways.

As one example – A man may contract to serve from his 18th birthday until his 38th, giving twenty years of his life, for many their best years, to his country. In order to ensure that he stays for his full commitment the deal is that unless he stays until his 38th birthday he will not receive his pension entitlement. He agrees. That is the deal. It is easy for him to understand.

But if the MoD decides to boot him out during the month before his 38th birthday, as is reported, and as is condemned in an online petition, it is the MoD that has terminated the contract, and there is no moral or honourable excuse for cancelling his applicable pension rights. The worst the MoD can do is to say that the last year has been cut short by the MoD and that therefore only 95 per cent will be paid — but even that is dishonourable. It is, as my generation would say, not British. You should explain that too to the Prime Minister.

The Prime Minister badly needs your advice on another matter. He is reported as saying that "when we have an Army of 80,000 regulars rather than 100,000 regulars, we'll still be capable of doing things like we're doing in the Olympics." Now that really is reassuring. He should go with you onto Newsnight to tell al-Qa'ida that. The Americans will be pleased, too. They enjoy a laugh. (It recalls to mind another Prime Minister telling the troops in Helmand that they were showing "the same courage as our athletes in Peking.")

He has said also, to the same audience, that "the Army under our plans is going to be broadly the same because of course the Territorial Army … our reserves … goes up to 30,000." It is now, Mr Hammond, your sad duty to advise him that there is no one in the MoD who understands how the Territorial Army is manned, structured, restricted, trained, and paid who believes this for a moment.

Communication: Hammond has said "There's no point in having a cardboard Army." This is admirable, but he must tell this to the Prime Minister

There is no way you will find 30,000 trained reservists who can take the place of regular soldiers. Yes, you will find some, but the best estimate I have been given is around 2,500 (if we found 30,000 candidates) capable of leaving their jobs quickly and performing as well as, for example, an infantryman patrolling from a Forward Observation Base in Helmand. The second best figure I was given was 1,000.

We must return now to the heading of this article. You are asking the wrong questions. I heard your explanation today of the withdrawal scenario, and until I write on this subject again we shall have to agree to differ about its prospects, but one line you took cannot be accepted as valid. You appeared to suggest that the experience of our retreat from Iraq indicated we should succeed in a relatively trouble-free exit from Afghnistan.