Michael Turnbull and his pregnant fiancée Charlotte Cushing looked as loved-up as ever as they hosted a baby shower ahead of welcoming their baby boy.

The Bachelorette star, 42, confirmed he and Charlotte are expecting their first child together in October and later announced they will be welcoming a son.

Now, the overjoyed couple have hosted a lavish baby shower with their loved ones as they count down the days until welcoming their baby boy.

Sweet photographs from the joyful party, shared exclusively with Daily Mail Australia, showed the couple looking as cosy as ever as they packed on the PDA.

Michael cut a dapper figure in a cream polo shirt and white shorts as he posed with his arm wrapped around his fiancée, who he asked to marry him in October.

Michael Turnbull and his pregnant fiancée Charlotte Cushing looked as loved-up as ever as they hosted a baby shower ahead of welcoming their baby boy

Sweet photographs from the joyful party, shared exclusively with Daily Mail Australia, showed the couple looking as cosy as ever as they packed on the PDA

Michael cut a dapper figure in a cream polo shirt and white shorts as he sweetly planted a kiss on Charlotte's stomach

Charlotte showed off her growing baby bump in a stunning white halter-neck dress, which she styled with silver studded heels.

She appeared over the moon as she flashed a huge smile and clutched a bouquet of flowers and a teddy bear in one hand as she was showered in gifts.

They shared a passionate smooch while Michael also sweetly knelt down and planted a kiss on Charlotte's stomach in one sweet snap.

The couple posed in front of a display of blue and yellow balloons and a cubed sign spelling out 'baby' as they pulled out all the stops for the lavish shower.

They had a green iced cake complete with an adorable sign reading 'baby Turnbull' while the place settings featured intricately iced pregnancy-themed biscuits.

Guests were also given the chance to make their predictions about the unborn child, as questions including which parent the baby will look more like featured on a card.

Just days after announcing the pregnancy in October, the happy couple revealed that they are having a baby boy together with a lavish gender reveal party.

Charlotte showed off her growing baby bump in a stunning white halter-neck dress, which she styled with silver studded heels

They also had a green iced cake with an adorable sign reading 'baby Turnbull' as they pulled out all the stops for the sweet baby shower

Guests were also given the chance to make their predictions about the unborn child, as questions including which parent the baby will look more like featured on the place settings

Sharing snaps of the special day to Instagram, the couple looked overjoyed as they popped a balloon containing blue confetti, revealing they're having a little boy.

Surrounded by family and friends, the excited parents shared a sweet kiss once the announcement was made.

Cuddling up together and unable to wipe the smiles off their faces, Michael and Charlotte were clearly delighted with the news.

Michael, who appeared in multiple incarnations of the Bachelor franchise, had confirmed that he will be a father by sharing a sweet polaroid image to Instagram.

'Baby Turnbull, Due April 2024,' the image read as they smiled holding their sonogram picture in the polaroid.

Days later, Michael popped the question to his pregnant girlfriend as they took a romantic stroll on the beach.

The Bachelorette star, 42, confirmed he and Charlotte are expecting their first child together in October and later announced they will be welcoming a son

The reality star, who appeared in multiple incarnations of the Bachelor franchise, had confirmed that he will be a father by sharing a sweet polaroid image to Instagram

Michael captioned their photos with: 'To the most incredible, strong and caring woman I know... Thank you for choosing me.'

Charlotte responded sweetly: 'I would choose you in a million lifetimes. Over and over again. I love you.'

Charlotte was previously Ms Galaxy Australia/Australasia 2020-22 and a Miss Hawaiian Tropic in 2017. She also held a Miss Supercars title in 2016.

Michael was runner-up on Sam Frost's season of The Bachelorette in 2015 before returning for a stint on Bachelor In Paradise in 2018.