We’ve all heard horror stories about cybersecurity threats.

Maybe you’ve even experienced one yourself.

With studies showing that in 2022 alone, victims of cybercrime in the UK were reportedly up by 40% to 4,783 reports per million internet users, it’s very possible that you were one of them.

Despite this shocking figure, when it comes to actively investing in cyber protection, many of us default to considerations of our desktop computers and laptops only.

After all, traditionally those were the devices at risk. Right?

Not anymore.

The advent of smartphones, and the rate at which we use them, means these gadgets could be just as at risk — if not more so.

Photo: Norton

With most of us entering (and saving) personal logins, credit card details, passport information, passwords, work content and important emails directly on our phones, our beloved devices make incredibly appealing targets for hackers.

So, what’re you doing to keep your phone safe?

If your answer is nothing, then you’ll be interested to know how easy and affordable Norton is making it to help keep your phone secure.

Turns out, from as little as £9.99 for your first year of protection, you could alleviate concerns about your phone’s security.

Here’s how Norton does it.

How at risk is your phone?

Whether for business or personal use, most of us are on our smartphones consistently — if not constantly — throughout the day.

According to Cybercrew, as of 2021, up to 79% of the population in the UK used a smartphone.

That’s almost 54 million people.

And of those users, almost 98% stated that they use their phones to access their social media accounts.

But with users being required to upload personal data upon opening an account, and weak passwords often being in use, as DataPro states, these sites and apps make appealing targets.

Last year alone, over a million Facebook accounts were allegedly exposed in a data breach, providing hackers with the opportunity to steal valuable information such as passwords.

And this was through no irresponsible action on the account holders’ part.

Now, it’s hardly news that social media platforms are frequently hacked. But by simply having a social media account and using it on your phone, you could potentially be at risk.

Photo: Norton

Scary, huh?

Even outside of social media, our phones could be at risk of viruses, malware and more that can compromise your identity and data.

Consider how often you use your email accounts, for example.

Email communication via mobile phone has been recorded by Cybercrew as the most frequent activity on internet services in the UK.

And each account and exchange could be an opportunity for hackers to steal your information.

At the end of the day, it’s undeniable that our phones could be just as at risk as our computers when it comes to cybersecurity.

But you can set up your first line of defence right now with Norton Mobile Security.

Don’t skip a beat: How Norton can help protect your phone

While the reality of our exposure to hacking is daunting, thankfully we have good guys on our side.

Guys like Norton.

As a brand dedicated to fighting cybersecurity threats, Norton offers everything from antivirus, malware, ransomware and hacking protection to VPN, PC Cloud Backup, Parental Control, Dark Web Monitoring and Social Media Monitoring and more*.

*Features vary per Norton plan. Not all features are available on all devices or operating system

Norton technology blocks thousands of cyberthreats every minute — including those we’re vulnerable to while using our phones and favourite apps.

And it's been trusted by millions of customers around the globe.

Photo: Norton

Norton truly has your back when it comes to helping keep hackers at bay.

And it offers protection, just for mobile devices, too.

Voted one of the best security apps for Android in 2022, Norton is renowned for its hypervigilance and effective protection.

Offering WiFi, internet, SMS and device security, along with suspicious network detection, Norton works to help stop hackers from ‘eavesdropping’ on your online activity, thereby preventing them from stealing your precious passwords, logins and personal information.

What’s more, it has the handy ability to provide insights regarding malware, online privacy and other risks before you download an app from the Google Play Store and, by doing so, Norton helps its customers to make informed decisions.

It takes a preventative approach to its security, and we’re here for it.

With an iOS-specific Norton app at play, iPhone users can rest assured their prized possessions are in good hands, too.

Norton Mobile Security for iOS works to help keep your iPhones and iPads safer from cyberthreats and online scams, through device and network security, as well as suspicious network detection, SMS security and more.

And, while it’s hard at work there’s something you can do to help.

Turns out, one of the best ways to help protect your device from viruses and malware, is to keep the operating system up to date.

Who knew? (Norton, obviously.)

So, rather than continually clicking ‘update later’, it might be time to start accepting those options ASAP and setting yourself up for the best chance at avoiding a cyber-attack.

Thankfully, by choosing Norton Mobile Security iOS protection, you’ll receive notifications of the latest security and iPhone updates, helping to ensure your operating system is kept up to date.

Discover more about Android phone protection

Discover more about protecting your iPhone

Interested in multi-device protection? Norton offers it all

With a good plan for your phone’s security now identified, you may be keen to help keep your other devices protected as well.

And we don’t blame you.

Losing your phone — and the information stored there — is one thing.

But losing out across every device you own, is another thing entirely.

Luckily, Norton has protection options designed to cater to individuals, families and small businesses of various shapes and sizes.

Photo: Norton

Whether you’re ready to increase the security on just one other device, or you’d like to lock in protection across multiple devices — there’s an option for you.

From the basic Norton Antivirus Plus option to Norton 360 Standard, Deluxe and Advanced, each of which offers progressively more holistic and intensive protection across an increased number of devices, it’s really over to you to make the decision that’s best for your needs.

Photo: Norton

Invest in one of the best

Now that you understand the increased risk of a cyber attack, the question is: Can you put a price on your security?

Whether you’re an Android or iPhone holder, for just £9.99 for your first year — less than 2p per day — you can help keep hackers where they belong: away from you.

What’s more, for only a few additional pence each day, you can help keep them locked out of your other key devices, too.

Family computer? Safer.

Kids tablets? No worries.

Norton really is a one-stop reliable shop for your cybersecurity needs.

All that’s left to do is sign up.

Keep your devices safe with Norton

The pricing information presented above is accurate as of 08/09/2023. We are not responsible for any changes to it. This article is paid for by Norton. When you make a purchase, we may earn a commission.