A floating chapel that has been converted into a luxury two-bedroom home has just hit the market for a cool $699,000 - marking the fourth time the vessel has been listed since 2017.

Before it was renovated into a condominium-style abode, the property had the bragging rights of being 'one of two' floating chapels in the entire world.

The 1,800-square-foot residence, which is currently moored in Palmetto, Florida, is now aptly known as the Former Chapel on the Bay.

The two-bedroom, two-bathroom house enjoys a whole host of mesmerizing features including the structure's original 30-foot-tall steeple.

This floating chapel, which has been converted into a luxury two-bedroom home, has just hit the market for a cool $699,000 - marking the fourth time the vessel has been listed since 2017

Before it was renovated into a condominium-style abode, the property had the bragging rights of being 'one of two' floating chapels in the entire world

The 1,800-square-foot residence, which is currently moored in Palmetto, Florida, is now aptly known as the Former Chapel on the Bay

The chapel's kitchen contains marble countertops, double fridge freezer and floating island

The condominium-style abode, which weighs in at about 33 tons, is made entirely of fiberglass, allowing it to float effortlessly on the water

Similarly, it boasts seven large stained-glass windows that have all been fashioned out of protective, hurricane-proof glass.

Having undergone an impressive transformation, more than $1.3 million has been invested into the building to create a modern house on the water.

The chapel, which weighs in at about 33 tons, is made entirely of fiberglass, allowing it to float effortlessly on the water.

It is stabilized by electric winches and steel beams to ensure there is no danger of capsizing during stormy weather.

The chapel's kitchen contains marble countertops, double fridge freezer and floating island.

The primary bedroom comes with an ensuite bathroom, large double bed and plenty of storage, with the second, lofted bedroom outfitted with a heavy curtain for privacy and a cozy sofa bed.

The property, which also includes a covered deck, is fitted with air conditioning and large fans.

It comes with an eight-kilowatt generator which powers all the amenities, including a satellite dish, EV antenna and a 65-inch flat-screen TV.

The primary bedroom comes with an ensuite bathroom, large double bed and plenty of storage space

Having undergone an impressive transformation, more than $1.3 million has been invested into the building to create a modern house on the water which boasts two bedrooms and two bathrooms

The unusual house enjoys a whole host of mesmerizing features including the structure's original 30-foot-tall steeple

The boat is currently powered by Cummins diesel engines, allowing it to navigate various waterways.

Back in 2017, the former chapel was listed for $600,000 and, just one year later, it hit the market for $425,000.

Then again, in 2020, it came up for sale once more - then listed for $400,000.

The renovation was kicked off by retired contractor Sam Cribbs and wife Linda after the couple purchased the house as a 'project' in 2015.

They had initially plunged $240,000 into the overhaul, explaining at the time: 'I basically took it all apart and put it back together so that it could actually be lived in.

'I didn't buy it to keep. I bought it as a project. It's really cool and it's in perfect shape for someone to move in,' he added.

As of 2018, the pair were Airbnb-ing the property as a unique vacation rental, charging $345 per night.