Meghan Markle 'asked chefs to turn up the heat' when she and Prince Harry visited an Indian restaurant in Canada - while the duke 'joked that spicy food makes him turn red'.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex were in Vancouver to celebrate the one-year countdown to the next Invictus Games, and attend last night's glittering 'One Year to Go' gala.

But while in the city, Harry and Meghan made a pit-stop at locally acclaimed Indian restaurant Vij's, much to the delight of those working in the kitchen.

Virkam Vij, who owns the restaurant, told CTV News that the royal couple appeared to have very different tolerances to spice, with Meghan ordering the 'spiciest dish on the menu'.

The duchess also asked for additional chillies and spicy pickles to add to her meal, Mr Vij said, adding: 'She loved it.'

Meghan Markle 'asked chefs to turn up the heat' when she and Prince Harry visited an Indian restaurant in Canada - while the duke 'joked that spicy food makes him turn red'

Meanwhile, the restauranteur said Harry found the food 'a little spicier'.

He added: 'He actually himself said, "Do you know I'm a ginger? Which means when I eat spicy food, I get red?"'

Vij's said on Instagram they were 'truly honoured' to have Harry and Meghan dine with them on Thursday night, sharing a picture of the royal couple and Mr Vij.

Videos were also shared of Harry and Meghan visiting those in the kitchen.

In one clip, Harry asks 'Who made the lamb curry?' as starstruck chefs point at each other in response.

The Duke and Duchess were joined at the restaurant by musician Michael Bublé and his wife Luisana Lopilato, who later also attended the 'One Year to Go' gala.

Mr Vij said the famous faces had entered the restaurant through the kitchen after their security detail had arrived to scope out the area.

'It was just incredible and my kitchen staff were so happy,' he added. 'They were so excited.'

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex were in Vancouver to celebrate the one-year countdown to the next Invictus Games, and attend last night's glittering 'One Year to Go' gala

But while in the city, Harry and Meghan made a pit-stop at locally acclaimed Indian restaurant Vij's, much to the delight of those working in the kitchen. They were joined by Michael Bublé and his wife Luisana Lopilato

It comes as Prince Harry and Meghan were given a Canadian send off on Friday night with Michael Bublé singing re-written lyrics to Frank Sinatra's classic 'My Way', in a nod to the Duke.

The couple were attending a lavish gala dinner with 200 guests in Vancouver to wrap up their tour in preparation for the 2025 Winter Invictus Games.

Shortly before a speech by the Duke, Bublé performed a rewritten version of Frank Sinatra's 'My Way' with nods to Prince Harry littered throughout.

It included the line: 'You’ve earned each day, the right to say, I did it my way,' and referred to Harry as a 'visionary.'

The Canadian crooner also sung, 'Our healing wishes for your dad', in a touching gesture to King Charles III who was recently diagnosed with cancer.

Meghan was glamorous in a one-shoulder olive green dress by Canadian designer Greta Constantine as well as a necklace by Logan Hollowell, and shoes by Manolo Blahnik

Bublé went on to perform a rewritten version of Frank Sinatra's 'My Way' littered with nods to Prince Harry littered throughout

Harry, wearing a dark suit and a black tie, then spoke about the Invictus Games telling the audience that the athletes, who are comprised of injured and sick servicemen and women, embodied 'courage, leadership, and fortitude.'

Meghan, 42, wore a one-shoulder olive green dress by Canadian designer Greta Constantine, a necklace by Logan Hollowell and Manolo Blahnik shoes.

Meghan and Harry had been expected to head home to Montecito, California following three days of Invictus Games events in Whistler and Vancouver but extended their trip by a night to enjoy a party with athletes and organizers.

From left to right: Squamish Nation Councillor, Wilson Williams, Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex, Chief of the Tsleil-Waututh Nation, Jen Thomas, and Prince Harry, the Duke of Sussex exchange greetings after being given blankets during dinner in Vancouver on Friday

Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex, watches dancers from the Tsleil-Waututh Nation perform during the 'One Year to Go' Invictus Games dinner in Vancouver on Friday, Feb. 16, 2024

Although not part of the official schedule and intended to be held away from the media, the gala - which is being held at the Vancouver Convention Centre - was signposted with black and gold Invictus signs.

Towards the end of the night, the crowd gave a standing ovation as Prince Harry took to the stage - who joked that he was going to start singing before welcoming Bublé to the stage.

Bublé said it was emotional for him to be there and that he loved that 'we can show Harry and Meghan how beautiful this place is'.

Other lyrics swapped by Bublé included: 'Nothing tames, Invictus Games, you play them your way', 'One man, life-changing plan, he does all he can, he’s a visionary'.