Prince William left film fans in disbelief as he arrived at the BAFTAs in London tonight after admitting he still has not watched Box Office sensation Barbie.

The Prince of Wales, 42, arrived solo for this evening's award ceremony where he apologised for the Princess of Wales' absence as she continues to recover at their family home following her abdominal surgery.

The heir, who has been president of the EE British Academy Film Awards since 2010, was seen cheerfully posing for photos with members of the public as he walked down the red carpet.

The Prince, who cut a sharp figure wearing his trademark navy velour suit jacket and dickie bow, went on to greet the award's organisers telling them 'I am sorry Catherine's not here, she does love the BAFTAs'.

William, who has been focusing on his family following his wife's medical procedure and his father King Charles' shock cancer diagnosis, said he had not watched as many of the nominated films as usual admitting he's had 'other things on my mind'.

The Prince opted for a velour navy blue dinner jacket, dickie bow and patent black brogues for the most glamorous night in the British film calendar

The Prince apologised for his wife's absence as she continues to recover from abdominal surgery. Pictured: Prince William and Kate Middleton pictured at the BAFTA awards in 2023

Prince William admitted he had not seen Box Office sensation Barbie yet, explaining he 'hopes to catch up soon'

The father-of-three added that he 'hopes to catch up' and will watch the films alongside his recovering wife.

Film fanatics who had lined-up outside the Royal Festival Hall were pleased to here the Prince had watched Christopher Nolan's Oppenheimer but were shocked to find out he was yet to watch Greta Gerwig's Barbie, starring Margot Robbie.

'I haven't seen Barbie yet,' the Prince admitted, with excited fans telling him 'You need to see it.'

Once inside, the Prince took a seat next to Hollywood royalty Cate Blanchett as they prepared to watch the ceremony presented this year by David Tennant.

A host of A-listers descended on London's South Bank this evening with Margot Robbie, Emma Stone, Emily Blunt and Florence Pugh amongst those making a dazzling appearance.

Tonight's awards marks the first high-profile royal engagement Prince William has made since his wife's major operation and father's diagnosis.

Earlier this month he gave a speech at a London charity engagement raising funds for London's Air Ambulance Charity's new fleet of helicopters earlier this month.

It was thought he might skip the ceremony, which he usually appears arm in arm with Kate, but the Prince was keen to continue with his duties and represent the Royal Family at the prestigious event.

The 42-year-old royal strides down the carpet alone at the Royal Festival Hall ahead of this evening's ceremony

Cate Blanchett puts her arm on the Prince of Wales' shoulder as the pair greet each other

Kate had surgery on January 16 at the London clinic and has since returned to Adelaide Cottage in Windsor to be with her three children.

Tonight's ceremony marks the 77th annual award, with Nolan's atomic bomb biopic expected to be a big winner after receiving 13 nominations.

Prince William has been a patron for 14 years with his wife first attending the event with her husband in 2017.

At last years event, Kate Middleton opted for an Alexander McQueen one shoulder gown for the occasion, which she first wore to the event in 2019.

For his outfit, William kept things classic and simple in a double-breasted black velvet tuxedo jacket.