Milan van Ewijk has stressed that he meant no offence after 'mixing up' celebrations with a controversial salute in Coventry's win over Millwall.

The Sky Blues jumped into the play-off positions after a Haji Wright quickfire double secured a 2-1 victory, after cancelling out Romain Esse's opener for Millwall on Sunday.

Following one of Wright's goals, a photo of Van Ewijk performing a controversial celebration was posted on the club's Instagram page.

He placed his index finger between his top lip and nose gesturing a moustache, with his right arm raised in the air. Fans pointed out the unfortunate connotations of the gesture, though Van Ewijk had a finger raised in the air - a difference to the Nazi salute in which the hand is flat.

Replying to Coventry's post of the picture on Instagram, Van Ewijk wrote: 'I got two celebrations mixed... please don't see this as offensive.'

Coventry posted this photo of Milan van Ewijk celebrating during their win over Millwall

Van Ewijk responded to the now-deleted post saying that he got two celebrations mixed up

Coventry then posted this picture which Van Ewijk replied was a 'better pic'

Your browser does not support iframes.

Coventry quickly deleted the picture and another shot of his celebration was uploaded in which he did a heart gesture.

Van Ewijk also responded to that picture writing: 'Yeah, that's a better pic.'

One picture appeared to show that the finger in the air was mimicking team-mate Wright who was also seen doing so during the celebration - with his other hand pointing to his head.

Ahead of the game, Coventry's hero on Sunday, Wright, credited Van Ewijk for helping him settle in to the squad, while adding the full-back was 'big on celebrating'.

'He's a fun guy to be around. A lot of jokes and a lot of fun,' the United States striker told reporters.

'He's a good player as well so he does make it easier for us.'

Wright appeared to imitate scorer Wright (left) by raising his finger in the air

Coventry's victory over Millwall on Sunday pushed them inside the play-off positions

Wright added: 'It would be great if he could celebrate a goal every now and then but yeah, he's big on celebrating.'

Van Ewijk joined Coventry from Eredivisie outfit Heerenveen last summer for a fee of around £3.5million and has gone on to make 29 appearances for the club