A mother has sparked a parenting debate after revealing she left her boyfriend and 10-month-old daughter in economy while she flew business class on an 11-hour flight.

Ellis Cochlin, a UK native based in California, opened up about her blissful child-free international flight from Paris to Los Angeles on TikTok, where she has nearly 25,000 followers.

The content creator, who uses the handle @ellcochlin, explained that her boyfriend, Rob, offered to watch their daughter the entire flight as part of her 'push present.'

However, the mother of one admitted to feeling guilty about being treated like a queen in business class, where she was given a warm washcloth, wine, and food while she kicked back in a lie-flat bed.

Ellis Cochlin, a UK native based in California, went viral on TikTok after revealing she left her boyfriend and 10-month-old daughter in economy while she sat in business class on a flight

The content creator, who uses the handle @ellcochlin, explained that her boyfriend, Rob, offered to watch their daughter, Prim, the entire flight as part of her 'push present'

'The flight from Paris to LA was about just over 11 hours, and the thought of having a baby-free flight was like music to my ears,' she said

'Am I a horrible person for flying business class while my baby and boyfriend flew economy?' she asked at the start of the video.

Ellis noted that she and Rob spend their money differently. While she likes to treat herself to jewelry and business class flights, he prefers to splurge on restaurants.

She recalled how she had to fly alone with Prim in the past, saying she was thrilled to have Rob help her before they went to their separate seats.

'The flight from Paris to LA was about just over 11 hours, and the thought of having a baby-free flight was like music to my ears,' she said.

'I love Prim, and I love that girl with my whole heart, but let me tell you, flying long-haul on your own with a baby is not easy.'

Ellis explained that Rob wanted to fly with Prim because he had never done it before, and she was happy to let him.

'I said, "You know what? That is completely fine with me. I'll see you in 11 hours, babe,"' she said.

The mom added that she tried to buy her boyfriend one of the available business class seats, but she nixed the idea after finding out she would also have to pay for a separate seat for her 10-month-old daughter, which would cost thousands.

Ellis's video has been viewed more than 425,000 times and sparked a parenting debate in the comments, with some claiming they could never leave their child on a flight

'My whole family told me I was a horrible person, as a joke, obviously, for being in business while Prim and Rob were in economy,' she admitted. 'But I said, "As if you wouldn't do the same."

'Rob said that my business class seat would be the last bit of my push present, so I was obviously going to take that. I wasn't just going to leave it.'

Ellis noted she could have done without the fancy food, which included a risotto and fish dish followed by macarons, but she was able to take an 'amazing nap.'

She ended the video with footage of her baby girl in her stroller while they waited for their luggage.

'Rob said the flight was easy as hell, and I know he was lying,' she joked.

Ellis's video has been viewed more than 425,000 times and has received hundreds of comments since it was posed last week.

However, others were completely supportive of Ellis's decision, insisting that she had earned the right to relax for a few hours

People were divided over her decision, with some insisting they would never be able to leave their children on a flight.

'I think you both should [have] been there for each other and shared the responsibility,' one person wrote.

'Nothing to do with duties but just travel with the family together,' another agreed.

'I couldn’t do this to my partner. I wouldn’t enjoy the flight at all,' someone else added. 'Pleased for you though. I really wish I could do it and not feel guilty.'

Others insisted that Ellis deserved a break and shouldn't feel guilty for taking one, pointing out that she had flown by herself with her daughter multiple times.

'You’ve spent SO MUCH time baby handling solo, I feel you definitely earned this!' one viewer commented.

'Don’t feel guilty!!!!!! Us mamas just want to [breathe] alone sometimes,' another wrote.

'God that’s a dream. I’d do the same,' someone else insisted.