A luxury penthouse in the Boiler House at Battersea Power Station is for sale for £31million.

The four-bedroom property combines two penthouses into one space, extending across a 5,167 square feet.

And it boasts an outdoor seating area underneath one of the four iconic chimneys.

Luxury four-bedroom penthouse for sale is in the iconic Boiler House at Battersea Power Station

Battersea Power Station has four iconic white chimneys, one of which overlooks the penthouse

There are other outdoor spaces, including an internal roof garden, and a main bedroom roof terrace with 360 views of the city and the River Thames.

There are also river views from the main living areas and all bedrooms on the upper floor.

This leasehold penthouse also houses a staff area that includes a bedroom and office space with private access.

There are also river views from the main living areas and all bedrooms on the upper floor

The impressive property features a large outdoor seating area underneath one of the four iconic chimneys

A feature staircase leads to the top floor that houses a secondary media and family room, study with balcony, two river-facing guest bedrooms and an integrated kitchenette and utility room.

Upstairs, the main bedroom suite includes two large dressing rooms, a bathroom suite and a dual aspect bedroom that leads onto a two-tiered private roof terrace.

The staircase on this level leads to a fully electronic roof light that opens onto a vast roof terrace with a large decked area.

The large living space includes several seating areas divided by beams and crittall doors

The property extends across 5,167 square feet, with the indoor areas spread across two floors

Floor to ceiling windows and glass doors can be found throughout the designer property

The roof terrace has a range of established plants and trees, surrounding a large patio area

The penthouse has under floor heating, air cooling, smart home technology and security, along with secure underground parking for four cars.

The Boiler House has a communal resident garden on the eleventh floor and a 24/7 concierge service.

The resident's only leisure facility is called the Spring gym, providing residents with gym access, pool and classes.

There are far-reaching views across the London skyline for the outdoor areas of the penthouse

The kitchen has light cabinets with contrasting worktops and a herringbone wooden floor

This roof terrace at the property has a dining area and separate seating that overlooks the city

The property has good access to public transport, amenities and schools, with Battersea Power underground station less than half a mile away.

Also under half a mile away is Battersea Park, and two schools - Newton Preparatory School and St Mary's RC Voluntary Aided Primary School.

Meanwhile, the Grade II listed Battersea Power Station is a London landmark that has been renovated to include shops, bars and restaurants.

A feature staircase leads to the top floor that includes two river-facing guest bedrooms

The estate agent handling the sale is Sothebys Realty, which described it as 'arguably one of London's finest penthouse apartments'

The dining room has some large artwork on the walls and a circular dining table in the centre

The main bedroom suite boasts a dual aspect bedroom that leads onto a two-tiered private roof terrace

This bathroom in the penthouse boasts a bath tub overlooking the skyline and floor to ceiling marble

Dan Copley, of Zoopla, said: 'This penthouse apartment is an iconic property, situated in the boiler room of Battersea power station.

'As you would expect, the design has been meticulously thought out and comes equipped with everything from roof terraces, staff bedrooms and 360-degree city and river views across London.

'A truly rare opportunity to own such an incredible piece of the London skyline.'

The estate agent handling the sale is Sothebys Realty, which described it as 'arguably one of London's finest penthouse apartments'.