Taylor Swift debuted a song from her Grammy-winning album Midnights on Friday night at her show in Melbourne, Australia.

The 34-year-old songstress — who just announced a bonus track for her upcoming album — delivered a performance of You’re Losing Me — an emotional ballad from the Late Night Edition of Midnights — for the first time.

Swift sat at the piano dressed in a flowing yellow dress as she announced to the audience, 'I’ve never played this song live before. It’s one of my favorites.'

The song came out in May 2023 and features a narrator singing about realizing a relationship is unhealthy and their attempts to save it, which many fans have theorized was inspired by the end of Swift's relationship with the English actor Joe Alwyn.

The pop star also broke out the title track of Red, which she hadn't performed since last year.

Taylor Swift debuted a song from her Grammy-winning album Midnights on Friday night (pictured) at her show in Melbourne, Australia

The 34-year-old songstress — who just announced a bonus track for her next album — delivered a performance of You’re Losing Me for the first time, an emotional ballad from the Late Night Edition of the project; pictured Friday in Melbourne

Though fans have speculated that Joe Alwyn may have inspired the song, You're Losing Me Taylor penned the tune one year before their relationship came to an end.

In November, her friend and collaborator Jack Antonoff took to Instagram to give fans insight on the record, which had only been available in physical form before it began streaming last fall.

'You're Losing Me' is out today. A very special track from the Midnights sessions that's finally streaming!' he wrote at the time.

He shared a snapshot of the songstress in her kitchen, with wine and raisins nearby.

'Written and recorded at home on 12/5/21 right after Taylor ate those raisins,' he added.

While in Australia Taylor also announced an alternative deluxe edition of her forthcoming album The Tortured Poets Department.

The Bolter features different cover art and a different exclusive track — a previously unannounced song called The Bolter.

Swift shared the new information during her show, and later on social media, uploading two new closeup photos, including one that showed her lying in bed.

The collector's edition deluxe copies are available for purchase for a limited time on her website.

The star encouraged fans to pre-order the new music as she shared two links in her Instagram Stories ahead of the weekend.

One link read 'File Name: The Bolter' and the other simply said 'pre-order now.'

Additionally, the Bolter variation will include multiple bonus products with unique branding.

It consists of a patch, bookmark and photo cards with excerpts of the song lyrics.

Though fans have speculated that Taylor's ex Joe Alwyn may have inspired the song, she penned You're Losing Me one year before their relationship came to an end; the former couple pictured in 2019

Swift sat at the piano dressed in a flowing, yellow dress as she announced to the audience, 'I’ve never played this song live before. It’s one of my favorites'; pictured Friday

The pop star also performed the title track of Red, which she hadn't performed since last year

Taylor previously introduced CD and vinyls under the name The Manuscript.

Both feature the respective bonus tracks as an add-on to the standar 16-song list.

An Instagram captions to her 281 million followers read, 'File Name: The Bolter [white heart emoji] Pre-order the new edition of THE TORTURED POETS DEPARTMENT with an exclusive bonus track for a limited time on my website now.'

The full Tortured Poets Department album drops on April 19.