Boxing fans are wondering whether this is the moment that caused the 'freak' cut above Tyson Fury's eye, leading to the postponement of his heavayweight unification contest against Oleksandr Usyk.

Fury stunned the sport when it was revealed he suffered a severe laceration above his right eye in sparring, making him unfit to compete on February 17 as planned.

A devastated Fury apologised to Usyk and his team before grainy footage from sparring surfaced online, claiming to show the decisive hit the Gypsy King took which bust his eye.

Fury is seen sparring before taking a wicked uppercut on the inside, before he is seen complaining at the problem area above the eye and walking off.

The footage remains unconfirmed and other reports have claimed that Fury suffered an accidental clash of heads, causing the nasty cut.

WARNING - GRAPHIC CONTENT BELOW

A video of Tyson Fury sparring has fans questioning if this is how he picked up his latest injury

Fury is seen complaining of a cut above his right eye in the grainy clip which appeared online

This is the nasty laceration above Fury's right eye which has postponed Oleksandr Usyk fight

'I am absolutely devastated after preparing for this fight so long and being in such superb condition,' a dejected Fury said.

'I feel bad for everyone involved in this huge event and I will work diligently towards the rescheduled date once the eye has healed.

'I can only apologise to everyone affected including my own team, Team Usyk, the undercard fighters, partners, and fans as well as our hosts and my friends in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.'

Usyk is still hoping to box on that February 17, with IBF mandatory challenger Filip Hrgovic named as a possible opponent but any clash with Fury is now on ice.

Fury added to his statement by posting a mirror selfie on Instagram, with the caption: 'Cant help getting injured in sparring but what i can say was Usyk was in trouble i am in fantastic shape. i will resheduel [sic] soon as i can. 2024 a massive year for team GK.'

Queensbury Promotions described the incident in Riyadh which led to the injury as 'freak', with the blow coming above Fury's right eye.

Fury has been sparring Moses Itauma (7-0) Kevin Lerena (30-2) and Alexis Barriere (11-0)

Fury had stitches for the wound and he will now be sidelined as Usyk seeks a new opponent

'The cut, which opened above Fury's right eye, required urgent medical attention and significant stitching, and will obviously require a period of recovery, scuppering any possibility of the fight with Usyk taking place on February 17 in Saudi Arabia,' a statement said.

A spokesperson added: 'Whilst this is still breaking news it is clearly a massive disappointment, after the work that has been done by so many people to finally deliver this historic event to the world.

'Once the doctors have appraised Tyson's eye, we will have a better idea of the period of recovery needed.

'Once known we will work diligently with all the stakeholders and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to reschedule this fight as soon as possible and will of course keep everyone updated with developments.'

Usyk (pictured) is still hoping to box on that February 17 date, with IBF mandatory challenger Filip Hrgovic named as a possible opponent for the Ukrainian heavyweight

It is the latest set-back for the showdown between the pair, who were slated to fight this time last year before both men walked away from negotiations - despite Usyk agreeing to a 70-30 split in the Gypsy King's favour - when Fury asked to remove the rematch clause.

There may well be a sense of deja vu for Fury and his camp as it is the same right eye that required 47 stitches back in 2019 following a nasty gash inflicted by Otto Wallin.

Fury was caught by a series of Wallin's hooks and he was left with a nasty laceration above his right eye.

Only a matter of hours ago promoter Eddie Hearn addressed claims that Australian cruiserweight Jai Opetaia dropped Fury during their sparring session last month.