As he prepares to emerge from his shepherd’s hut and break his silence on Brexit with the publication of his delayed memoirs, David Cameron can expect some flak.

Arriving at a posh Mayfair bar for a meeting with his long-suffering literary agent, the former PM looked less than impressed by a loud ‘thanks for Brexit’ from Farage bankroller Arron Banks, who was at the tail end of a long lunch.

With talk of an electoral pact, relations between the Conservatives and the Brexit Party grow stronger by the day.

The former PM looked less than impressed by a loud ‘thanks for Brexit’ from Farage bankroller Arron Banks, pictured above, who was at the tail end of a long lunch

Commons Leader Jacob Rees-Mogg – whose sister Annunziata is an MEP for Nigel Farage’s Brexiteer hardliners – has hired Hugh Bennett as his spin doctor.

Bennett’s partner Lucy Harris is also a Brexit Party MEP who regularly protests outside Downing Street. Which could make things a bit awkward.

Jo Johnson's betrayal of brother Boris by quitting his Government has inspired a less-than-flattering nickname – Fredo, the treacherous character in The Godfather who machinates against his sibling, Michael Corleone.

As film buffs will be aware, Michael appears to forgive Fredo… before ordering his killing.

Posing in the No 10 garden for cute photos with the tiny pup was not enough to save Ed Vaizey, above. Just hours after posting this snap online, the PM’s old friend was in the doghouse– stripped of the Tory whip and banned from standing again

Dilyn can't save Ed from the doghouse

Downing Street’s new doggy Dilyn was deployed for some last-minute diplomacy on Monday evening, meeting MPs and Ministers as Boris Johnson tried to win over rebels to keep his Brexit plans alive.

But posing in the No 10 garden for cute photos with the tiny pup was not enough to save Ed Vaizey. Just hours after posting this snap online, the PM’s old friend was in the doghouse – stripped of the Tory whip and banned from standing again.

Feuds abound in Boris’s helter-skelter administration. The latest is between Kit Malthouse, an ally from his City Hall days, and Home Secretary Priti Patel.

Malthouse has grumbled to friends that Priti has been stealing his thunder by claiming credit for the planned increase in police numbers.

After Thursday’s farce, when the PM made his abortive Election launch in Wakefield in front of baffled-looking officers – one of whom fainted – maybe Kit is better keeping a low profile.

Phil suffers for his art

Not content with ripping up his spending rules and stripping him of the Tory whip, the purge of Philip Hammond continues.

At the Treasury, new Chancellor Sajid Javid has returned all of Phil’s ‘dreary’ artwork to the Government’s collection.

‘Like with so many things, his taste was a bit gloomy,’ a spy tells Dog.

So abrupt was Theresa May’s defenestration from Downing Street that she became the first Conservative Prime Minister not have her portrait hanging in that Tory bastion, the Carlton Club.

Dog hears that she has finally got round to sitting for the oil-on-canvas. ‘There’s a nice spot for it near the exit,’ whispers Dog’s man in clubland.