An FA Cup semi-final as it used to be: not at Wembley but at a slightly dishevelled Stamford Bridge.

It was neutral territory for two London clubs and there was little surprise, then or now, that Arsenal would be one of them. Arsenal reached five FA Cup finals between 1971 and 1980.

There were, however, raised eyebrows over their opponents — Orient.

Liam Brady gets his shot away in the FA Cup semi final between Orient and Arsenal in 1978

Orient, either as Clapton Orient or Leyton Orient — the Leyton prefix was dropped in 1966 — had never gone as far in the Cup and had finished the previous season 19th in the Second Division.

Laurie Cunningham had been their top scorer but he left for West Bromwich Albion in 1977 and few saw that as a signal Orient would go on a major Cup run. But under the management of Jimmy Bloomfield, with experience in midfield in Tony Grealish, a developing youngster, Glenn Roeder, at the back, and a striker in the form in Peter Kitchen, Orient were off.

In knocking out First Division opposition three times, they became 'Bloomfield's Upstarts'. With Roeder playing as a sweeper, they were also known for their five-man defence.

Kitchen was a 26-year-old from Mexborough in Yorkshire who, by the semi-final, was 'the northerner who has become the Cockney pride and joy'.

He was academically gifted and was questioning the wisdom of swapping Doncaster Rovers for Orient when the run began. It was hardly easy along the way, Orient needing three replays.

Under manager Jimmy Bloomfield, Peter Kitchen (left) became a crucial player for Orient

Bloomfield had Kitchen to throw at defences and Norwich City's was the first to feel the force, although when Kitchen scored in a 1-1 draw at Brisbane Road in front of 15,000 in the third round in January '78, the assumption was that top-flight Norwich would win the replay at Carrow Road. Instead, Kitchen scored again and that was the only goal.

Next came divisional rivals Blackburn at home. It was 3-1, two more for Kitchen and one for Joe Mayo. The fifth round brought a home draw again — against Chelsea. With Peter Bonetti, Micky Droy and Ray Wilkins in the team and 25,000 at Brisbane Road, it finished 0-0. The game was held up due to trouble on the terraces and the two boards rowed over who was responsible.

In the replay, Orient's first trip to Stamford Bridge that season, an own goal by Bill Roffey gave Chelsea the lead.

Kitchen then scored two — his 23rd and 24th goals of the season — and as Orient celebrated with Kitchen photographed smoking a giant cigar in the bath, Chelsea held an inquest as to why Kenny Swain was dropped for turning up late.

Developing young star Glenn Roeder was one of Bloomfield's 'upstarts' as they became known

The sixth-round draw brought more First Division opposition: Middlesbrough away. Boro were eighth in the league at Christmas, then sold Graeme Souness to Liverpool and were 15th when Orient arrived at Ayresome Park. The 34,000 locals still expected a home win. Orient's defensive organisation brought a goalless draw.

Three days later, Kitchen scored twice in the first half of the replay and although David Armstrong pulled one back for Boro, little Orient had reached an FA Cup semi-final.

At Highbury, eventual winners Ipswich took on West Brom — where Cunningham replaced a bloodied John Wile. At Stamford Bridge, Orient were back to face an Arsenal side orchestrated by the brilliant Liam Brady.

The focus was on the upstarts, of course. Orient's finances could be gauged by their request that Arsenal's squad co-sign 40 footballs to be auctioned for the Orient players' pool. Arsenal declined, Orient were not happy. Kit manufacturers Admiral stepped in with a donation. It was on the basis that Orient wore Admiral gear, part of a 'Buy British' campaign in a time of Adidas dominance.

Arsenal manager Terry Neill had been one of 7,000 at Brisbane Road to see Orient's goalless draw with Blackburn in the league four days before.

The Gunners did not want to go the same way as Norwich, Chelsea and Boro. In front of a 50,000 crowd — Stamford Bridge's capacity then was 60,000 — two early goals from Malcolm Macdonald ensured they did not. Graham Rix added an individual third in the second half. Not even Kitchen could reply.

One report referred to 'Arsenal's stylish, aggressive total superiority which, in the end, made the match the most one-sided semi-final for years'. On this occasion, Orient's tactics could not cope with Brady and, perhaps harshly, Kitchen said afterwards: 'Playing five men in defence... it didn't work. We didn't play at all.'

The following week Orient lost at Crystal Palace and relegation to the Third Division loomed. But Bloomfield's men found form and on the season's final day won 1-0 at Cardiff to reach 38 points. They were one of seven clubs to finish on that total, one point above relegation. An escape to follow an escapade.

Orient's goal at Ninian Park was scored by... Peter Kitchen.