Butler service, unbeatable views and plenty of space to play with; these are just some of the perks that come with luxury hotel suites as these travel influencers reveal.

A number of TikTok creators have gone about seeking out the some of the world's most expensive hotel suites, to offer their followers an exclusive peek inside.

One video uploaded to the TikTok channel @mansiontok, takes viewers inside a $14,000 Encore Three Bedroom Duplex suite at the Wynn Las Vegas, where there's a everything from a billiards table to a massage room to keep guests happy.

While vlogger and author Lex Croucher takes viewers inside an unusual hotel suite in central London, which costs from $850 a night, with a regal four poster bed and Victorian freestanding tub being just a couple of the standout features.

Take a trip down to get a taste of what these and other sumptuous suites offer, without shedding a cent.

Encore Three Bedroom Duplex, Wynn Las Vegas: $14,000

A video uploaded to TikTok channel @mansiontok, takes viewers inside a $14,000 suite at the Wynn Las Vegas

The presenter steps into room E2801, which he explains is a two story unit complete with 'incredible views and a balcony.' He showcases a pop up TV and internal staircase

A video uploaded to TikTok channel @mansiontok, takes viewers inside a $14,000 Encore Three Bedroom Duplex suite at the Wynn Las Vegas, which is where Prince Harry reportedly racked up a bill of more than $38,000 during his infamous 2012 trip where naked photos of him were leaked to the press.

The presenter steps into room E2801, which he explains is a two story unit complete with 'incredible views and a balcony.'

In total, the sprawling suite offers 5,829sq ft of room to play with, with some of the offerings including three bedrooms, a billiards room, an elevator leading to the upper level and a private workout room-cum-massage room.

The real state expert notes that 'everything in this hotel room is just pure luxury,' and topping things off, it comes with a butler service so guest requests can be dealt with 24/7.

While in one of the bedrooms, he showcases the pop up TV, and he says the marble clad bathrooms 'are just incredible.'

After touring the other bedrooms and bathrooms, he concludes 'this place is crazy.'

The hotel website notes that bookings in the swanky suite, include expedited entry to the resort nightclubs, a welcome gift, butler service, a $200 daily breakfast credit and limo airport transfers.

Kingpin Suite, Palms Casino Resort, Las Vegas: $15,000

TikTok creator Lluvia Cristal uploaded a video to her account @lasvegaschicas to show the incredible Kingpin suite at the Palms Casino Resort in Las Vegas

The hotel website states that the 4,240sq ft suite makes for the ideal spot to 'enjoy all the games you love in complete comfort,' with two professional bowling lanes and a pool table

TikTok creator Lluvia Cristal uploaded a video to her account @lasvegaschicas to show the incredible Kingpin suite at the Palms Casino Resort in Las Vegas.

She notes that the room costs from $15,000 a night, and 'many famous celebrities have been known to stay' there.

The hotel website states that the 4,240sq ft suite makes for the ideal spot to 'enjoy all the games you love in complete comfort,' with two professional bowling lanes, a pool table and 12 televisions.

In terms of the accommodation offering, Lluvia reveals two 'beautiful' queen sized bunk beds and a king size bed in another room.

Her other favorite space includes the ensuite bathroom with a bathtub serving up great views and there two 'gorgeous, spacious showers' for guests to work with.

'This is a perfect place for a birthday party or any kind of event,' Lluvia says as she makes her way around the suite.

Other perks of the room include a butler service, a DJ booth to get the party started, a complimentary cabana at the hotel pool and free airport transfers.

The influencer concludes: 'This specific suite was on the 25th floor and The Palms has seven other themed luxury suites. Others include a basketball court. Let me know who wants to split this 60 ways, because I'm down.'

Availability for the suite isn't available on The Palms website and perspective guests have to email or call to book.

Duplex Suite, The Peninsula Bangkok: $5,500

Travel influencer Andrew Dobson created a TikTok to show viewers 'one of the most luxurious penthouse suites in Bangkok'

The suite, which encompasses the 36th and 37th floors, features grand, classical interiors, with dark wood, flashed of gold and chandeliers being among the running themes

Travel influencer Andrew Dobson created a TikTok to show viewers 'one of the most luxurious penthouse suites in Bangkok.'

In his video, he opens the door of the duplex suite at The Peninsula hotel, which costs from $5,500 per night.

The suite, which encompasses the 36th and 37th floors, features grand, classical interiors, with dark wood, flashed of gold and chandeliers being among the running themes.

In terms of the space, Andrew notes that the 'opulent' two story room features 'a powder room, two bedrooms, two bathrooms, two terraces, a dining room with kitchenette and living room fit for a king!'

As he navigates the dining room, he imagines it as a spot where he could have all of his friends over for dinner, while outside, he discovers a wraparound terrace serving up superb views of the metropolis.

Continuing on his tour, he tells viewers: 'Beside the dining room, there is a kitchenette for when I'm hosting little dinner parties. Oh my goodness.

'So from the main door, I'm now gonna take you into the first bedroom. So there's a lovely powder room and then through here we've got the first bathroom. It has a his and her sink, a Jacuzzi with a view of the river, [and] a shower.

'Oh my goodness, I'm dying. And from the bathroom, here's the first bedroom. It has wrap around windows overlooking the river and two comfy beds.

'We are back in the foyer and I'm gonna take you upstairs. At the top of the stairs there's this amazing balcony that looks over the living room. My heart is beating so fast. I'm So excited. And here's the second terrace.'

Other rooms he navigates include the luggage room, a study decked out with a TV and the master bedroom, which features yet more wraparound windows.

'Oh my goodness... this is so insane,' he exclaims, as he flops back and gives the plush bed a whirl.

The Empathy Suite, Palms Casino Resort, Las Vegas: $75,000

One of real estate expert Jason Matouk's TikToks takes viewers inside the famed Empathy Suite at the Palms Casino Resort in Las Vegas, which costs a staggering $75,000 per night

The suite features a swanky bar complete with a countertop featuring some quirky Damien Hirst artwork. Outside on the balcony there is a private pool with views of the city

One of real estate expert Jason Matouk's TikToks takes viewers inside the famed Empathy Suite at the Palms Casino Resort in Las Vegas, which costs a staggering $75,000 per night.

The high flying realtor says before conducting his tour: 'I'm gonna show you what $75,000 a night gets you here in Las Vegas.'

To start, he shows off the private kitchen next to the dining room.

He then walks on through to a living room 'that can fit about 30 people,' and a swanky bar complete with a countertop featuring some quirky Damien Hirst artwork.

Moving outside, Jason showcases the suite's private pool, which is 'suspended in the air and has got a view of the city and the distance.'

Back inside, the property pro explains that there is a 'chill little eating hangout area next to your main TV room' and 'behind the TV you have a pool table.'

As with the rest of the suite, Damien Hirst artwork adorns the wall, and Jason explains that one giant piece featuring dozens of sparkling gems includes one 'real diamond.'

Two bull sharks in suspended formaldehyde serves as another Hirst exhibit.

Heading upstairs, Jason takes views on a tour of some of the standout amenities, which include a state-of-the-art salt sauna and two massage rooms.

In terms of accommodation, the suite features two king bedrooms and Jason says the main suite is especially impressive with a 'ton of space,' a walk in closet, and floor to ceiling windows serving up 'incredible' views.

The hotel website notes that the Empathy Suite is the 'perfect place to escape the hustle and bustle of the casino floor and enjoy a taste of Las Vegas aristocracy.'

Crown Presidential Villa, Crown Hotel, Sydney: $38,000

Travel influencer Fiona Chen zooms up to the top floor of the Crown Hotel in Sydney, to offer her followers a tour of the Crown Presidential Villa which comes in at $38,000 a night

The travel pro goes on to explain that the hotel apartment is located on the 88th floor of the tallest building in Sydney

Travel influencer Fiona Chen zooms up to the top floor of the Crown Hotel in Sydney, to offer her followers a tour of the Crown Presidential Villa which comes in at $38,000 a night.

As the camera pans around the cavernous suite, Fiona tells her viewers: 'So I'm gonna show you why it cost that much and you tell me if it's worth it.'

The travel pro goes on to explain that the hotel apartment is located on the 88th floor of one of the tallest buildings in Sydney.

Perks of the two floor penthouse suite include 'a 24 hour private butler, an infinity pool and infrared sauna, a karaoke room and the most iconic views of the city.'

As she enters one of the two bedrooms, she explains that it has been designed with floor to ceiling windows so 'you can see both sunrise and sunset from your bed.'

On wrapping up her tour, Fiona also reveals that Taylor Swift was rumored to be staying in the suite during the leg of her Sydney Eras Tour.

Many viewers said while the room was 'incredible,' the price seemed a little steep.

One commenter wrote: 'No place should ever cost that much for one night.'

While another said: 'I don't care what it has, it’s not worth it.'