Sugababes' Mutya Buena has seemingly hit back at former bandmate Heidi Range and her mother after they took a swipe at the group.

The group, which now consists of Mutya, 38, Siobhán Donaghy, 39, and Keisha Buchanan, 39, won the Impact MOBO Award last week - and it appears to have bothered Heidi, 40, and her mother.

As the trio picked up their award and gave an acceptant speech, Heidi took to Instagram and proudly posted a selfie directly in front of her Sugababes wall of fame.

She wrote: 'It’s raining and it’s freezing, but I’m manifesting the sun. It’s almost the weekend and half term, we’ve got this! Happy Thursday all.'

Meanwhile, Heidi's mother commented at how 'proud' she was of Heidi's history and slammed the trio for being 'disrespectful for carrying on the group without her'.

Sugababes' Mutya Buena (M) has seemingly hit back at former bandmate Heidi Range and her mother after they subtly took a swipe at the group (pictured with bandmates Siobhán Donaghy (L) and Keisha Buchanan (R) at the MOBO Awards last week)

As the trio picked up their award and gave an acceptant speech, Heidi (pictured) took to Instagram and proudly posted a selfie directly in front of her Sugababes wall of fame

She wrote: 'Yes Heidi all the songs you wrote and made hits you can’t rewrite history or the facts no matter how much you pretend . So very proud of you, mum.'

She continued: 'I just can’t believe the cheek of it. Sugarbabes didn’t have a hit till Heidi joined 6 number 1 singles and multi platinum albums it is so false and disrespectful the way they are carrying on shame on them.'

Furious Mutya seemingly hit back at Heidi's mother's comments on Sunday and claimed they need to 'get over it' and 'stop putting them down for what they deserve'.

She wrote: 'I wasn't gonna say nothing but f*** it, I will... now firstly I'm not here to hurt feelings but hold tight.

'When I wasn't in the group and the girls was doing big things WITHOUT ME, do you think I was getting upset about not being mentioned?

'Sooooo let's just be nice and get over it, we all deserve our flowers but it was me Shiv, and Keisha on the stage accepting our award at MOBOS and YES WE DESERVED IT.

'I'm over people putting me and my ladies down.'

MailOnline have contacted both Heidi and the Sugababes' representatives for a comment.

Heidi's mother commented at how 'proud' she was of Heidi's history, while slamming the trio for being 'disrespectful for carrying on the group without her'

While the Sugababes performed on stage at the MOBO's, Heidi's mother hit out at the group on Instagram

Heidi's mother commented under Heidi's Instagram post: 'I just can’t believe the cheek of it. Sugababes didn’t have a hit till Heidi joined 6 number 1 singles and multi platinum albums it is so false and disrespectful the way they are carrying on shame on them'

Furious Mutya seemingly hit back at Heidi's mother's comments on Sunday and claimed they need to 'get over it' and 'stop putting them down for what they deserve'

Sugababes shot into the charts back in 2000 with their debut single Overload and went on to enjoy a plethora of hits including About You Now, Freak Like Me and Push The Button (Sugababes originial members Mutya, Keisha and Siobhan pictured in 2001)

Siobhan left in 2001 and was replaced by Heidi Range, (R) Mutya left in 2005 and was replaced by Amelle Berrabah (M) and Keisha was replaced by Jade Ewan (L) when she departed in 2009

The band reformed in 2012 with their original line-up, under the name of Mutya Keisha Siobhan as Sugababes was still owned by their previous record label, they won back the rights to the name in 2019 (Keisha, Siobhan and Mutya pictured)

Sugababes shot into the charts back in 2000 with their debut single Overload and went on to enjoy a plethora of hits including About You Now, Freak Like Me and Push The Button.

But it wasn't always plain sailing and the group were renowned for their fall outs which led to the line up changed three times before returning to the original threesome in 2012.

Siobhan left in 2001 and was replaced by Heidi Range, Mutya left in 2005 and was replaced by Amelle Berrabah and Keisha was replaced by Jade Ewan when she departed in 2009.

The replacement members stopped making music in 2011.

The band reformed in 2012 with their original line-up, under the name of Mutya Keisha Siobhan as Sugababes was still owned by their previous record label, they won back the rights to the name in 2019.