Everyone’s picture of paradise is painted a little differently. For some, it’s a palm-tree-fringed beach with a tropical breeze, while for others it's a glossy metropolis or a wildlife-dense jungle.

If you're someone who's looking to take the plunge and book your dream getaway in 2024, enlisting the expertise of Travelbag is the perfect place to start.

Whether you have your sights set on a single far-flung destination or want to combine several destinations in one, Travelbag's Travel Specialists can cater to your every wanderlust whim. Plus, they can curate a one-off itinerary that truly takes you off the beaten track.

Make this your year for adventure with Travelbag - they're the experts when it comes to crafting the ultimate tailor-made getaway

And there's no better time to book as the Travelbag sale is running now until February 29.

Drop into one of their shops across the UK to chat with Travel Specialists in person to plan your paradise escape, or speak with them over the phone or online.

Launched in 1979, the company has earned a standout reputation over the past four decades - it won 10 awards at the 2023 British Travel Awards including the Gold prize for 'Best Travel Company to Canada' and 'Best Travel Company to Southern Asia'. Plus, it's rated 'excellent' on Trustpilot with a 4.8 rating.

Here's some inspiration for a trip that will make 2024 a year you'll never forget…

A taste of Thailand

Every kind of traveller can find their niche in Thailand, a country that offers infinite showstopping views.

Begin your journey in Bangkok, a bustling city filled where every street is an adventure for the senses, from street food stalls to zooming tuk-tuks.

Travel north for peaceful villages, rainforest hiking trails and the historic haven of Chiang Mai, or venture south to discover the country’s fabled beaches and isles.

Embark on a journey to enjoy the very best of Thailand, a destination full of showstopping sites and unforgettable experiences

You're sure to encounter a host of picturesque scenes, likethe stairs of Wat Doi Suthep temple in Chiang Mai (pictured)

Snap up Travelbag's deal to stay in the five-star Cape Panwa Hotel in Phuket, Thailand's largest island.

Set a stone's throw from a private beach on a tranquil peninsula, the retreat offers unlimited rest and relaxation, though you're just a short drive from Phuket Old Town and the beach resorts of Karon and Patong if you want a taste of the island's world-famous nightlife scene.

Otherwise, you might want to relax with a Thai massage at the hotel spa, followed up with a session in the steam room and sauna.

Dine on fragrant curries and fresh shrimp dishes at the beachfront Panwa House restaurant, or master Thai recipes with a cookery class.

Learn more about the country's traditions with a one-on-one Thai boxing class or a batik painting session. Or simply hire a kayak or a paddleboard for the afternoon and navigate the crystal-clear waters of the coast.

And it's a steal - it's £999 for seven nights bed and breakfast, including flights and transfers, meaning couples can save as much as £430 on their stay.

Or why not fuse two incredible breaks into one with Travelbag's Hong Kong and Koh Samui package?

Giving you the best of city and beach living, the trip begins in Hong Kong, famed for its dramatic skyline, Michelin-starred restaurants, verdant hiking trails and miles worth of coastline.

Take to the waves to enjoy world-renowned views alongside sandy beaches and unmatched snorkelling in Koh Samui (pictured)

Explore its museums and night markets before ascending to the height of Victoria Peak for a mesmerising city view.

Next, you'll fly to Koh Samui, the Thai island where wellness, adventure and elevated cuisine combine in an idyllic beach setting.

Zoom through the rainforest on a zipline, with monkeys swinging in the trees and waterfalls waiting to be discovered. Or snorkel among a rainbow of tropical fish and chase rays on the beach.

It's hard to resist at just £1,599 for 10 nights, with the price including hotels and flights.

Nature's wonders in Costa Rica

Nirvana for nature lovers, Costa Rica is blanketed in mangroves, flora-rich rainforests and postcard-perfect beaches, as well as an incredible five per cent of Earth's animal species.

With all this natural beauty around, it's easy to see why the country's motto is Pura Vida, meaning ‘pure life’.

Flora-rich rainforests make Costa Rica a bucket list destination for nature-lovers around the globe

And despite its compact size, it offers a wealth of unforgettable activities. Snorkel in Punta Uva’s coral-filled waters, surf in Pacific Coast beach towns, zip-line through jungles, spot brightly-coloured birds on national park treks or lounge on unspoilt Caribbean beaches.

See the country at its most magical with Travelbag's Spirit of Costa Rica package.

Highlights include visiting the colossal 5,437ft Arenal Volcano to bask in its magnitude and navigating cloud-laced canopy bridges in the enchanting Monteverde Cloud Forest Biological Reserve.

There's no knowing what wildlife you'll see as you explore the thickets of Central America

You’ll cruise through the biodiverse canals and lagoons of Tortuguero National Park, spotting monkeys, caimans, turtles and crocodiles as you drift. Each night you'll lay your head in beautiful locations, including hidden-gem rainforest lodges.

Any questions you have will be answered by your expert guides, giving you a deeper understanding of Costa Rica and the flora and fauna that call it home.

To sweeten the deal, it's excellent value at £1,759 for eight nights, including return flights to the capital city San José.

Down (under) for adventure in Australia

A chameleon of a country, Australia can be the setting for countless different kinds of holidays.

Surfers and sun seekers make for its beautiful beaches, from legendary Bondi Beach to stunning Lucky Bay. Adventurers, meanwhile, snorkel in the Great Barrier Reef, drive through the terracotta wilds of the Outback and hike through World Heritage Sites.

City slickers can check out Melbourne's world-famous coffee scene, Sydney’s showstopping landmarks and Brisbane’s botanical gardens, while history and nature lovers are captivated by sacred Uluru, ancient Aboriginal rock art sites and the vast Daintree Rainforest.

Australia has a bewildering variety of beautiful landscapes to encounter, just like Panorama of Nourlangie Badlands in Kakadu National Park (pictured)

Pennington Bay, Kangaroo Island (pictured) is one of the sub-continent's best-loved reserves, lying just off the mainland of South Australia

Wondering how to best explore it? Hit the open road in two of Australia's wildest regions, Northern Territory and South Australia, with Travelbag's 15-day Ocean to Outback Campervan Adventure.

It begins in the lively oceanfront city of Darwin, where you pick up your own 4WD Safari Landcruiser, a vehicle equipped to take you to remote, secluded swimming holes and walking trails. See outstanding rock art in the World Heritage Listed Kakadu National Park, a place that saltwater crocodiles and flatback turtles call home, and the gorge-filled Nitmiluk National Park.

Next, fly south and sip your way around some of Australia’s best wineries in the Adelaide Hills region.

Take a gander of Seal Bay, Kangaroo Island (pictured) which is known for its many residents who make up the sandy bank's diverse wildlife

Explore the ancient gorges, bushwalking trails and natural amphitheatre Wilpena Pound within the Ikara-Flinders Ranges National Parks and experience Kangaroo Island, populated by sea lions, koalas, penguin colonies and unique bird species.

Contact Travelbag to book it - the 14-night package includes flights, hotels and campervan hire.

Meandering the United Arab Emirates

From its ancient civilisations to its futuristic cities, the United Arab Emirates is a complex region that will win you over with its welcoming communities, time-honoured monuments and natural beauty.

Sci-fi-esque skyscrapers exist in the same landscape as grand mosques, spice-rich souks and innovative museums.

A tailor-made United Arab Emirates holiday could take you to the ancient archaeological city of Petra, the luxury shopping malls of Dubai, the sunkissed beaches of Ras Al Khaimah and more.

Recent years have seen Yas Island, Abu Dhabi’s unofficial capital of adrenalin, become a must-visit destination, thanks to its high-octane theme parks and role in hosting the Grand Prix.

Soak up a sunset over Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates (pictured), where desert views are to be relished under a shady palm

Sites like Sheikh Zayed Mosque in Abu Dhabi (pictured) promises to be a trip highlight

Experience the island with Travelbag's package break to the five-star Hilton Abu Dhabi Yas Island. It’s centrally located in Yas Bay, so you can cafe-hop on the promenade and enjoy golden-hour strolls along the sparkling Yas Waterfront.

Free access to Yas Island's theme parks is part of the package. There's Yas Waterworld, with more than 40 heart-racing rides; Ferrari World Abu Dhabi, home to the world's fastest roller coaster; and Warner Bros. World™ Abu Dhabi, where characters from Looney Tunes and DC Comics come to life.

Ideal for families, the hotel has spacious bedrooms, three restaurants, a playground, a kids' club and a free shuttle service that whisks you to Yas Island's leading attractions, while the 24-hour fitness centre and the eforea spa give parents the chance to recharge.

Contemporary-chic in style, guest rooms overlook Yas Bay and the resort itself, with a vast sun-lounger-lined swimming pool at the heart of the complex.

The best part? It's just £1,299 for five nights half-board including direct return flights and transfers.

Sale now on! Pick your own paradise now at Travelbag.co.uk/Sale