Arturo Vidal's unveiling at Colo-Colo in Chile certainly raised a few eyebrows, after the Chilean legend made a far from subtle return to his boyhood club.

Vidal is one the best players in Chile's history, and played a key role in their golden era in the 2010s alongside forward Alexis Sanchez, defensive midfielder Gary Medel and goalkeeper Claudio Bravo.

He has played for some of the biggest names in the game, with spells at Juventus, Bayern Munich and Barcelona, before a return to Colo Colo, 17 years after leaving for Europe.

As such, the club seemingly pulled out all the stops and then some for the veteran midfielder's homecoming - although it was not exactly the red carpet treatment you might expect.

Vidal arrived at Colo Colo's Estadio Monumental David Arellano in a helicopter, which landed in the centre of the pitch as he made his not-so-subtle arrival at his former club.

Arturo Vidal was given a royal welcome on his return to boyhood club Colo-Colo after 17 years

The Chilean veteran midfielder arrived at the club's Estadio Monumental David Arellano in a helicopter

He paraded around the ground on horseback, waving to the fans in the crowd that had come to witness his return

Arturo Vidal arrived at his Colo Colo unveiling in a helicopter, before riding a horse dressed as a king, wearing a crown and holding a sword as he toured the pitch while greeting approximately 35,000 fans in Santiago, as he returned to the club after 17 years away pic.twitter.com/04ZDLHvybc — Guardian sport (@guardian_sport) February 2, 2024

Your browser does not support iframes.

He then exits onto the field to soak up the applause and cheers from those in the ground to witness the bizarre scenes about to unfold.

After waving to the crowd he then mounts a horse and is seen draped in a long cloak to continue the procession around the stadium, which can hold over 50,000 fans.

Footage then shows the 36-year-old wearing a crown and wielding an enormous sword as he beams out at the supporters who have come to welcome him home.

The perhaps unexpected costume is likely a nod to the player's nicknames - 'The King' and 'King Arthur' - earned during his career, but are no less eyebrow-raising.

Vidal makes his way around the ground, slapping his chest to show his affection and thanks to his new club, before dismounting and addressing those inside the ground.

And football fans were understandably quick to react to the 'crazy 'unveiling on social media.

One wrote: 'This is crazy and hilarious simultaneously,' followed by a laughing emoji.

Another added: 'Arturo Vidal's grand entrance back to Colo Colo is the stuff of legends!

Vidal has re-signed with his boyhood club after spells in Brazil following his return from Europe

'Helicopter arrival, horseback ride, and 35,000 roaring fans - truly iconic! Welcome home, King Arturo!'

A third wrote: 'That's some wild entrance.'

And a fourth said: 'This is madness,' with a series of laughing emojis.

Vidal returns to Colo-Colo after spells with Flamengo and Athletico Paranaense in Brazil following his return to South America in 2022.

His time with the Rio de Janeiro-based Flamengo, however, ended under acrimonious circumstances after a controversial spell with the Brazilian giants.

After struggling for game time he was caught on camera angrily hurling his boots and water bottle to the floor in rage, after his and manager Vitor Pereira deem Vidal's introduction unnecessary.

Vidal had a controversial spell at Brazilian giants Flamengo which ended in acrimonious circumstances

He called manager Jorge Sampaoli a 'loser coach' after struggling for game time under the Argentine

He was duly given a 10 per cent reduction in his rages by the club, having already called for former club Colo-Colo to make a bid for his services on his Twitch channel.

Pereira was later replaced with Jorge Sampaoli, but Vidal again did not see eye-to-eye with his boss, and after once more struggling for playing time he left the club by mutual agreement before sending the Argentine coach some barbed words

'I am very happy to be playing,' he said after joining Athletico Paranaense. 'I was always ready to play, it was just that I got stuck with a loser coach who did not know how to appreciate his players.

'All that is in the past now, I am happy now and I hope to be a starter in the upcoming matches and show everything that I have done over the course of my career, which is to be a winner.'