A Massachusetts ambulance driver narrowly dodged a flipping car as he carried a patient along a snowy road in a shocking moment caught on dashcam video.

On February 13, paramedic Tim Crosbie was transporting a patient down Interstate 95 in Peabody, roughly 20 miles from Boston.

Suddenly, a white sedan driven by a teen came rolling down the highway at breakneck speed.

'It obviously happened fast, but it did feel very slow,' Crosbie told CNN.

'And that's what my partner and I were saying on the way back from the call we had done - is it just seemed like it was in slow motion.'

Massachusetts ambulance driver Tim Crosbie narrowly dodged a flipping car as he transported a patient down Interstate 95 in Peabody As a white sedan came rolling down the highway, Scobie was forced to turn quickly to the right to avoid it

After checking that his partner and their original patient were OK, Scobie tended to the 17-year-old driver until backup arrived

The driver had veered over the median and flipped across the southbound lanes, nearly colliding with the ambulance on an otherwise empty highway.

Speaking to FOX Weather, Crosbie said, 'I had to make a split -second decision on which way to go, left or right.

'And obviously I made the right decision to go right and avoided the car. Not by much,' he added.

After checking that his partner and the patient in the back were OK, Crosbie repositioned the ambulance to prevent another accident.

He was surprised to find he had easy access to the toppled vehicle, and discovered that the driver, a 17-year-old boy, was alert and responsive.

'The person in the car was awake and talking to me and, you know, really had no visible injuries. And we were able to get him out of the car easy,' Scobie recalled.

He added that the boy was doing 'very well.'

After a backup team arrived to tend to the teen, Crosbie's partner, Tim Wareham, carried their original patient back to Boston.

Scobie's employer, Cataldo Ambulance Services, praised his ability to remain calm under pressure and adhere to safety standard

'Obviously I made the right decision to go right and avoided the car. Not by much,' Scobie said

Cataldo Ambulance Services posted a message to Facebook praising their employee's quick thinking and ability to remain calm under pressure.

'This week, Paramedic Tim Crosbie’s safe driving skills have been on display around the world,' Cataldo wrote.

'Tim’s amazing work was a great reminder to slow down, use caution when road conditions aren’t optimal, be attentive to your surroundings, and always wear your seat belt.'

Other than the less-than-ideal weather, which was 'a little wet, a little rainy,' Scobie said it was 'basically a routine transfer into Boston.'

He noted that visibility was poor on the highway despite there being no significant precipitation.

Tuesday's near-miss came as a winter storm crawled over Massachusetts, delivering several inches to other parts of the state.

Several weather-related crashes were reported as the snow fell.

On Route 2 in Westminster, a driver was sent to the hospital with serious injuries following a collision in the early morning.

A bus crash occurred on the Massachusetts Turnpike around 12:45 pm.

Finally, a 20-year-old man was flown to UMass Memorial in Worcester after another driver rear-ended the dump truck he was driving as he plowed the street.