There are easy points to be scored with Emma Raducanu at the moment, but unfortunately few are favouring her side of the board. It would seem this has been another one of those weeks where her bruises were accompanied by a familiar question — is she really doing enough to help herself?

I watched her match against Anhelina Kalinina at the Qatar Open on Monday. It was neither pretty nor much of a contest, she was crushed 6-0 in the opening set and then lost a tie-break in the second. With that, she went out in the first round of an important tournament, having reserved her cleanest hits for an interview in the wake of defeat.

‘I was struggling with everything — serve, return, forehand, backhand,’ she said, and not even the most loyal of her followers would waste a Hawk-Eye challenge against that one.

It was a bleak assessment of a poor performance, which ordinarily would be kept in the perspective of a young athlete feeling her way back from surgeries on three limbs in 2023. Indisputably, the karma bill for one of the great British sporting stories of our time has been steep and cruel and anyone possessing even a lukewarm heart would want such a likeable, talented 21-year-old to have a kinder run from here.

But those are conversations about luck and strokes which sit apart from the ones we might have about her recent judgment.

Emma Raducanu is pictured with Naomi Campbell at the opening of a glitzy hotel in Dubai two days before she crashed out of the Qatar Open

Raducanu poses for a picture with High School Musical star Vanessa Hudgens at the opening of the One&Only One Za'abeel hotel last Saturday

Raducanu then performed poorly as she was dumped out the Qatar Open in the first round

I’m thinking here of other comments she made in the aftermath of that loss to Kalinina, in which she gave no fewer than 44 unforced errors to the world No30. She said it was hard to time the ball, to read its reactions off the hard surface and from there she touched on the problems caused by shadows cast over the court in Doha. ‘Honestly, I need to practice training outside a bit more because it’s very different,’ she added.

All of this could be taken in isolation as the subtle challenges that occur in a subtle game. Except it is awfully hard to isolate this specific scenario from how she spent her time a couple of days earlier, when she sacrificed deeper preparation by attending the launch of a new luxury resort across the border in Dubai.

That was on the Saturday night and it was well-attended by those who do well by attending such gatherings — Jennifer Lopez was there, Idris Elba too. At some point in the evening, Raducanu had her picture taken with Naomi Campbell and, tellingly, gave a shout-out on Instagram to her sponsors at Dior.

All of which is usually fine. It’s her business and a lucrative, fun one at that. In a different context, in a different week, at a different point in her trajectory, it might have attracted those lazy snipers for whom Raducanu has been an easy target and likely no-one else.

But going out in Dubai on that precise Saturday was a bizarre decision, because was it really sensible for her to be there two days before her fourth tournament in 10 months and only the fourth of her comeback? The word on the tennis grapevine, from those who truly know the game, is that it was not. Not at all.

This isn’t intended to be one of those po-faced, nuance-deprived discussions about how a young athlete spends their evening, it’s about how she chose to spend that specific chunk of time, because it fell three days after Ons Jabeur knocked her out in the second round of the event in Abu Dhabi.

The 21-year-old Brit admits that she needs to plan her tour schedule better upon reflection

Raducanu blamed shadows on court for misjudged shots but hadn't practised there prior

That five-day gap between the loss in Abu Dhabi and her match against Kalinina offered a choice, because the party in Dubai wasn’t an immovable object in her diary. Had she made the semi-finals in Abu Dhabi, she would have been playing on the Saturday and if she then reached the final it would have been on the Sunday. To guarantee a spot on the red carpet long in advance would have been to bet against herself, so we can assume it was a decision made on the fly. Just as we can assume it made Dior happy.

READ MORE: Emma Raducanu left in fits of laughter after cat invaded the court ahead of Abu Dhabi Open defeat by world No 6 Ons Jabeur Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sport/tennis/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

But let’s consider the alternative option that was on the table for a player who has fallen to 262nd in the rankings and who badly needs court time and confidence.

She could have gone early to Qatar and used it to familiarise herself with the surface; to pick up the pace of the court and the reaction of the ball. To get used to being outside. In other words, the things she pointed out. Those can seem like the boring particulars of tennis, but when you’ve fallen so far in the rankings, when you’ve strung together back-to-back wins only twice in 13 events spanning 18 months, the boring particulars are important.

They can be game-changers and they are also, well, obvious. Or they should have been to her and those paid to give advice. One win in that points-rich tournament in Doha could have launched Raducanu 40 places up the ladder, but she chose a different path — it’s been reported that she instead had a quick hit on the outdoor courts on Sunday before a quick exit on the Monday.

Raducanu was also knocked out early in the Abu Dhabi Open tournament the week before

Darting sensation Luke Littler, 17, revealed he practices for just 20 to 30 minutes every day

It’s been hard to see Raducanu struggle so much since the fairytale of New York. I recently found myself discussing her situation with the 17-year-old darts phenomenon Luke Littler as an example of how quickly things can go south in sport. Littler being blissfully indifferent to many things, we shouldn’t read too much into his response — he didn’t seem overly familiar with her story or existence — but it is sad Raducanu is a fit for such narratives.

READ MORE: Raducanu rubs shoulders with Naomi Campbell at glitzy Dubai hotel opening 48 hours before Qatar Open exit Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sport/tennis/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_2 - ->

Within them, her commercial activities have always been a talking point. At times they have been used, quite ludicrously, as a catch-all explanation for what has gone wrong. Distractions, a head turned — that kind of chat, to go with what we say about her constant coaching rotations. Eddie Jones, back when he was running England’s rugby team, put his voice behind those arguments just a couple of months after she won the US Open.

On that thorny topic, I’ve always preferred to follow the sharper judgment of our much-missed tennis correspondent, the late Mike Dickson, who maintained that a hard-working athlete mostly walked a sensible line with those obligations. That the double-edged sword of endorsements worth £12million a year was predominantly handled with care and meticulous planning. But this wonky trip across the Middle East has not been played well at all — it was an utterly daft way of breathing validation into those who might cast doubt about her priorities.

At this pivotal point in Raducanu’s career, when there are no guarantees over her direction of travel, it really would be the worst kind of unforced error if she started proving a few of them right.

Raducanu showed such remarkable promise when she won the US Open in 2021 aged just 18

Kane not to blame if Bayern fail

Harry Kane didn't offer a lot for Bayern Munich against Bayer Leverkusen. He got panned for his contribution in the Champions League against Lazio, too.

And so the tide is creeping in the wrong direction for him, just as it has gone against his club this season and many folk are having a little giggle about what has been called the Kane curse. Schadenfreude, and all that.

There is no doubt the fates have been unkind if this becomes Bayern's first campaign in 12 years to end without a trophy, but with 28 goals in 28 appearances, we can safely say Kane held up his end.

If they fail, the blame falls squarely on those around Kane.

Harry Kane reacts as Bayern Munich lost to Lazio in the Champions League in midweek

Blue card will add nothing to football

I tried something different this week by stopping in at the Cardiff Devils to watch some ice hockey. It was fabulous – fast, furious, family friendly, amazing atmosphere.

It was also intriguing to see sin-bins in their natural habit and they had the effect of slowing the clash with the Fife Flyers into scoreless bursts of defence versus attack for a couple of minutes before the drama resumed.

They play a useful role in policing ice hockey, but I saw nothing to suggest the so-called blue card will add anything of value to football.