Kourtney Kardashian and Travis Barker packed on the PDA in Brisbane on Sunday.

The reality TV star, 44, and the blink-182 drummer, 48, both wore head-to-toe black for their romantic stroll through the city.

Kardashian wore a dark hoodie with billowing sweatpants, while Barker donned a Balenciaga sweatshirt and dark pants.

Husband and wife both shielded their eyes with dark shades for the walk, with Travis also sporting a backwards black cap.

At one point the lovebirds paused to embrace and gaze into one another's eyes.

Kourtney Kardashian and Travis Barker packed on the PDA in Brisbane on Sunday

At one point the lovebirds paused to embrace and gaze into one another's eyes

Later, the musician paused to indulge some local fans and posed for a selfie.

Kourtney is in Australia with her kids Penelope, 11, and Reign, nine, both of whom she shares with her ex Scott Disick.

Their eldest son, Mason, 13, did not join his mother and stepfather for the trip.

The Kardashians star recently welcomed a baby boy, Rocky, three months, with Travis.

The reality TV star, 44, and the blink-182 drummer, 48, both wore head-to-toe black for their romantic stroll through the city

Kardashian wore a dark hoodie with billowing sweatpants, while Barker donned a Balenciaga sweatshirt and dark pants

Husband and wife both wore dark shades for the walk, with Travis also sporting a backwards black cap

Kourtney is in Australia with her kids Penelope, 11, and Reign, nine, both of whom she shares with her ex Scott Disick

The Kardashians star recently welcomed a baby boy, Rocky, three months, with Travis

The sighting came just a day after Travis performed with Blink-182 at Sydney's Qudos Bank Arena

The sighting came just a day after Travis performed with Blink-182 at Sydney's Qudos Bank Arena.

Kourtney attended the show to show her support, taking to her Instagram Stories to give an insight into the night out.

She shared a snap of Travis' dressing room backstage as she spent time with the drummer before he took to the stage.

Kourtney attended the show to show her support, taking to her Instagram Stories to give an insight into the night out

Later, the musician paused to indulge some local fans and posed for a selfie

The band will perform their Brisbane shows before returning to Sydney and Melbourne for newly-added dates at the end of the month

The Kardashians star also shared a picture of her son Reign grinning widely as he posed in front of a huge poster of Travis and his Blink-182 bandmates.

It marked Blink-182's second show in Sydney, after they also took to the stage in the city on Friday night, days after kicking off their Australian tour in Perth.

While Travis travelled to Perth, Adelaide and Melbourne with his bandmates Tom DeLonge and Mark Hoppus, Kourtney remained in Sydney with her children.

The band will perform their Brisbane shows before returning to Sydney and Melbourne for newly-added dates at the end of the month.