Residents in one of London's most historic neighbourhoods have said their homes are being ruined 'by relentless developers trying to box them in with skyscrapers'.

The Old Oak Lane conservation area in Ealing is the home of around 220 cottages which were built in the 1880s to house railway workers.

The historic location has been used as a period location for dozens of films since the 1930s, including The Ipcress File (1965), Foyle's War (2019), Eddie the Eagle (2016), Wild Bill (2019), Rise & Fall of the Krays (2016) and the Common People music video by Pulp (1996).

But residents of the traditional homes have been under pressure over the past few years from constant construction due to the nearby HS2 building site, along with the looming threat of several high-rise proposals.

They fear they soon won't be able to see the sun if plans for nearby skyscrapers go ahead.

The Old Oak Lane conservation area in Ealing is the home of around 220 cottages which were built in the 1880s to house railway workers

The cottages starred in the music Pulp's iconic hit Common People -with frontman Jarvis Cocker improvising a dance routine as residents were seen going about their everyday life behind him

The road has also been a common feature on film - and can be seen here in the 1965 thriller The Ipcress File

They warn that if the plans were to go ahead the historic site would be ruined as more and more buildings block out the nearby skyline.

Residents say if the high-rises were to go ahead the traditional community spirit of the area will eventually disappear.

Over the past few decades, the price of houses in the area has risen from around £58,000 in 1995 to a staggering £632,000 in 2022.

Alessia Stevani first moved into the area in 1995 and raised a daughter in the tight-knit neighbourhood, which includes Old Oak Lane, Goodhall Street Stephenson Street, Crewe, Stoke and Webb Place.

The business affairs executive said: 'It was a working-class area that has now become gentrified. People from all nationalities and walks of life live here, with a common purpose to keep this area going the way it is.

'When we see new people coming in it is easy enough when it is a family, they soon learn our rules, when they don't that is when we become really upset because we have a really strong community spirit.'

But Ms Stevani is worried the community spirit and historic location will disappear if the construction of the surrounding high rises – which includes one just down from her house – go ahead.

Residents worry that if the plans were to go ahead the historic site would be ruined as more and more buildings are planned in the Ealing and North Acton areas which could block out the nearby skyline

Alessia Stevani first moved into the area in 1995 and raised a daughter in the tight-knit neighbourhood but said the community spirit is being damaged by the new high-rises

Residents James Trew and daughter Isobel, eight, Alessia Stevani and Rebecca Johnson pictured on the street

'There are 220 homes here and the council just wants to turn them into a slum. I think it is because there are too many of us to compulsory purchase so they are making our life hell,' she said.

She said the views from Goodhall Street have already been ruined by the 'hideous' Kensal View apartment block which was completed last year.

The view was used for an iconic scene in the 2016 Eddie the Eagle film but Ms Stevani said it is now 'ruined' and could not be used for filming anymore.

Built in 1889 to house railway workers the cottages became Old Oak Lane conservation area in 1982 because it is an example of a Victorian-era enterprise.

They were built by a railway company to provide its workers with healthier living conditions, and there are very few surviving worker estates like it left in London.

John Dalton, 79, said the history behind the street was very important to him, so much so that he has kept his home in the original condition.

'It is pretty just a time capsule for me. It is authentic working class. I used to live up in Primrose Hill but then I got sick of the celebrities and moved here in 1997,' he said.

John Dalton, 79, said the history behind the street was very important to him and that he has kept his home in the original condition

John Dalton (his house is pictured) said he got 'sick of the celebrities' in Primrose Hill and moved to the area in the late nineties

John Dalton has kept his house house in the original condition

The historic location has been used as a period location for dozens of films since the 1930s

Rebecca Johnson and Alessia Stevani are pictured on the historic street

But Ms Stevani is worried the community spirit and historic location will disappear if the construction of the surrounding high rises, which includes one just down from her house, go ahead

A vintage photograph of what the street used to look like from the 80s

Stephenson Street was named after the 'father of the railways' and industrial revelation era engineer George Stephenson.

But the location has been changing since the railway workers moved out. The clubhouse building at the top of the streets which was once used by the workers and their families to socialise has now been renovated as a set of flats.

Rebecca Johnson is another resident of the area, who only moved in three years ago, but said she has already begun to notice the place change.

She said: 'It has more of a sense of community than anywhere I have lived before. It is a special place.

'They get the developments through on the basis that there is social housing but only a fraction of it is actually social – most of it is bought up by developers.'

She said despite residents of the area having to send their kids to other boroughs for school, and there being no libraries or other amenities the council 'keeps bringing in more people'.

'It is relentless. It is intimidation. There is a lack of thought that these are our homes' she said.

A Vintage postcard of the street from 1983

HS2 lumberyard next to the street which is expected to be turned into a tower block once work on the railway has completed

Residents also mention that since construction on HS2 began next door six years ago there has been a 'constant screeching' around the streets

Stephenson Street was named after the 'father of the railways' and industrial revelation era engineer George Stephenson

The Old Oak Lane conservation area in Ealing is the home of around 220 cottages which were built in the 1880s to house railway workers

Alessia Stevani said the views from Goodhall Street have already been ruined by the 'hideous' Kensal View apartment block which was completed last year

EXCLUSIVE READ MORE: The neighbours fighting to preserve one of London's most historic streets and prevent it from becoming another high-rise complex...but are losing the battle to green schemes, cowboy builders and wealthy outsiders Roupell Street, near Waterloo station Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/news/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

'Why is it listed as a conservation area if they are just going to let all of these inappropriate developments through?'

Residents also mention that since construction on HS2 began next door six years ago there has been a 'constant screeching' around the streets, but it is set to continue for another decade as the works rumble on.

'The dust and noise has been terrible', one resident said.

'The drains get all blocked and people get flooded from the runoff from the construction site.'

Residents have also raised concerns regarding landlords buying up the historic cottages and converting them into illegal properties for multiple households.

But the residents have begun to fight back and have contributed to the nearby Stop the Towers campaign in Ealing.

Resident Bernie Timmins, said: 'People have started waking up to what is going on.

'There is a development around the corner that is 660 apartments and only a small part of it is social housing.

'They keep building them – it is horror upon horror.

'They are planning on building a high rise on the nearby builder's yard. We will come out and will not be able to see the sun soon.'

Ms Timmins, added: 'The council should consider construction that is sympathetic to the area.

The clubhouse building at the top of the streets. It was once used by the workers and their families to socialise has now been renovated into a set of flats

Coal lane, the alleyway between Stephenson Street and Goodwill Street, which was used to transport coal to every house

Residents James Trew and daughter Isobel, eight, Alessia Stevani and Rebecca Johnson pictured on the historic street

John Dalton's house which he describes as a 'time capsule'

79-year-old John Dalton's vintage house which he has kept in the original condition

'We want low rises built. It is a well-known fact that high rises cause depression. People don't see their neighbours – only when they see them in the lift.

'They are not treating us as a community and we are a community. We all know each other and we are all supportive of each other. You can knock on anyone's door and they will help you.

'I just think they are putting money before people.

'We are right on the edge of the borough and we are the forgotten part of Ealing.'

A spokesman for Old Oak and Park Royal Development Corporation (OPDC), the body which manages planning in the conservation area, said it was 'committed' to ensuring new developments are designed to a high quality.

He said: 'We do appreciate that residents are experiencing an increase in construction locally, particularly given the construction activities related to the new station.

'We work with contractors operating in the area to mitigate disruption and keep communities informed and supported, ensuring that any complaints are promptly responded to and addressed wherever possible.

Responding to claims that a highrise will be built on the nearby industrial yard, the spokesman said: 'Plans for the industrial yard are on hold and OPDC has not received a planning application for this site.

'The site is not in an area where tall buildings would be acceptable. When and if an application is submitted to OPDC, impacts on the existing homes will be assessed against planning policy and we will carefully consult with the local community.

'When determining existing and future planning applications, OPDC carefully considers any impact on residents caused by buildings and would only ever approve a tall building in the Conservation Area if we received clear and convincing justification that the proposals delivered significant public benefits.'