Seal rescues are common on the island at this time of year after the pupping season of November to January

The 'feisty' seal was rescued on Wednesday by a local animal charity and had gone back into the water by Friday

An adorable three-week-old seal pup has been rescued on Nantucket island after kind strangers found it wailing in the middle of the road.

The wayward pup was spotted by a driver around 7:45 am on Wednesday on a road near Sesachacha Pond.

The good Samaritan contacted the Mammal Alliance Nantucket who arrived as the seal was heading down a hill near the road into the scrub oak.

The three-person rescue team managed to cover it with a towel and carry it back up the hill and place him into an airline crate.

'After a bit of bushwhacking, we safely crated the healthy youngster and transported him to a safe spot in Quidnet where he can rest in full view of the sea and head out when he's rested and ready,' the Alliance wrote in a Facebook post.

An adorable three-week-old seal pup has been rescued on Nantucket island

The wayward pup was spotted by a driver around 7:45 am on Wednesday on a road near Sesachacha Pond

The three person rescue team managed to cover it with a towel and carry it back up the hill and place him into an airline crate

'He was a feisty booger,' Pam Murphy, the organization's board president told the Boston Globe.

'He definitely gave me some trouble because he was really wiggly' she explained.

Murphy said there were 'no obvious injuries,' and the animal, which was placed in 'a nice secluded spot near a snow fence,' had gone back into the water by Friday.

Although seal rescues are common on Nantucket at this time of year Murphy said the rescue on Polpis Road was 'a hell of a long way' from the ocean, and much further than her usual calls.

The Mammal Alliance Nantucket who arrived as the seal was heading down a hill near the road into the scrub oak

There were 'no obvious injuries,' and the animal had gone back into the water by Friday

Pupping season on the island runs from November to January when seals are being born.

After three weeks they are self-sufficient and wonder solo, Murphy said.

However, the fledglings can often 'get disorientated' looking around for their mother, she explained.

'I wouldn't be surprised if some of this frenzy of little pups booking it away from the ocean is because of these stormy seas we've been having,' she added.

Nantucket is currently under a coastal flood warning and a wind advisory that will remain in effect until 7 pm on Sunday.