Nadia Bartel is set to shake a tail feather on the new season of Dancing with the Stars.

And now the former ex-AFL WAG has revealed that taking part in the Channel Seven hit is anything but a walk in the park.

'Training is much harder than I thought it would be and it's been a bit of a juggle trying to fit it in with my schedule with the boys and work, but I'm loving it,' she told the Herald Sun on Sunday.

Nadia, who shares two sons with ex-husband Jimmy Bartel, went on to reveal what attracted her to the show.

'I have always watched the show and love the passion and commitment of all of the dancers,' she told the publication.

Nadia Bartel is set to shake a tail feather on the new season of Dancing with the Stars. And now the former ex-AFL WAG has revealed that taking part in the Channel Seven hit is anything but a walk in the park. Pictured

'Training is much harder than I thought it would be and it's been a bit of a juggle trying to fit it in with my schedule with the boys and work, but I'm loving it,' she told the Herald Sun on Sunday. Pictured: the 2024 cast of Dancing with the Stars

'I love to dance, especially with my boys around the house, so the idea of doing this show was so exciting.'

Nadia's admission follows the official cast announcement for Dancing with the Stars 2024.

Four-time Gold Logie winner Lisa McCune is set to strut her stuff on the dance floor alongside beloved MasterChef favourite Julie Goodwin.

They will join singer Samantha Jade, SAS Australia's Ant Middleton, AFL legend Shane Crawford and Olympian and former senator Nova Peris.

Rounding out this year's competitors are comedian Nikki Osborne, Home and Away's James Stewart, Better Homes and Gardens presenter Adam Dovile and chef Hayden Quinn.

Earlier this month, it was revealed that AFL legend Ben Cousins will also be one of the stars taking to the dancefloor.

Four-time Gold Logie winner Lisa McCune is set to strut her stuff on the dance floor

SAS Australia's Ant Middleton will also be put through his paces

Pop diva Samantha Jade will be vying for the title

Earlier this month, it was revealed that AFL legend Ben Cousins will also be one of the stars taking to the dancefloor.

The 45-year-old footy star, who has been rebuilding his life in recent years after a fall from grace, explained that part of his redemption arc will include reality TV.

Ben refused shows like SAS Australia, but agreed to do Dancing With The Stars this year, explaining that focusing on a new challenge will aid him in rebuilding his life.

This year's stars are currently in rehearsal.

Dancing with the Stars will premiere on Channel Seven later this year.