A woman climber who plunged 65 feet down a Lake District mountain was saved in a million-to-one chance by a passing Royal Marine hero.

The woman was climbing near Sharp Edge, on the 2847-foot high Blencathra mountain - also known as Saddleback - in the Lake District on Saturday morning when she suffered several injuries falling.

The emergency services were alerted by a walker at 8.30am and a six-and-a-half hour rescue operation involving 28 volunteers from Keswick and Penrith mountain rescue teams was launched.

But while awaiting rescue it was revealed she was luckily stabilised by a passing walker who gave her 'excellent first aid' - who happened to be a Royal Marine squaddie.

The mountain rescuers described Sharp Edge as 'notoriously slippy' in wet conditions and they used a rope system to lower the woman to a doctor from Penrith Mountain Rescue Team.

A female climber who plunged 65 feet down Blencathra mountain in the Lake District was saved in a million-to-one chance by a passing Royal Marine hero

Volunteers embarked on a six-and-a-half-hour rescue mission after which the climber was taken to hospital in a Coastguard helicopter after being stretchered to a meeting point

The woman had been climbing near Sharp Edge, on the 2847-foot high mountain - also known as Saddleback - on Saturday morning when she suffered several injuries falling

She was then taken to hospital in a Coastguard helicopter after being stretchered to a meeting point.

Keswick Mountain Rescue Team wrote on Facebook: 'The team were called by a walker who came across a woman who had fallen 65 feet down the "usual gully" on Sharp Edge.

'Although suffering multiple injuries she had somehow managed to stop herself falling much further.

'She was also fortunate to have received excellent first aid by a passing Royal Marine whilst awaiting MRT support.

'As it was a complex rescue Penrith MRT and Coastguard helicopter assistance was requested.

Keswick Mountain Rescue Team wrote on Facebook: 'The team were called by a walker who came across a woman who had fallen 65 feet down the "usual gully" on Sharp Edge'

The mountain rescuers described Sharp Edge as 'notoriously slippy' in wet conditions and they used a rope system to lower the woman to a doctor from Penrith Mountain Rescue Team

The team added: 'Although suffering multiple injuries she had somehow managed to stop herself falling much further'

'In wet conditions Sharp Edge is notoriously slippy so a safety line was established to get team members with rescue equipment along the Edge.

'A twin rope system was then set up to enable the treated and packaged casualty to be lowered down the gully to a doctor from the Penrith team.

'Low cloud meant a stretcher carry was necessary to a point where Coastguard 912 could land and airlift the woman to hospital.'