Harry Styles was all smiles as he was pictured in attendance for Manchester United's win over Luton on Sunday.

The pop superstar has long been a fan of United, having previously been pictured in the club's kit during his time with One Direction.

TV cameras caught Styles meeting the Sky Sports team in the gantry, and he was pictured alongside Gary Neville, Jamie Redknapp, Curtis Davies and Hatters' captain Tom Lockyer prior to kick-off.

Styles is known for his unlikely friendship with Rio Ferdinand, with the former United stalwart bringing Styles one of his shirts to wear on stage for a One Direction concert at the Manchester Arena in 2013.

The 30-year-old also previously enjoyed a kickabout with club legend David Beckham and his son, Brooklyn, in 2015.

Harry Styles watched on from the stands as Manchester United defeated Luton on Sunday

Pop superstar was pictured alongside Sky Sports punditry team before the clash at Kenilworth Road

Styles previously wore a United shirt given to him by Rio Ferdinand in concert during his time in One Direction

"I've never seen Jamie Redknapp move so fast out of his chair to get his selfie!" 😅



Harry Styles at Kenilworth Road to watch Luton vs Man United 🏟️ pic.twitter.com/tLSO6clw11 — Sky Sports Premier League (@SkySportsPL) February 18, 2024

Your browser does not support iframes.

Styles' appearance at the smallest stadium in Premier League history prompted a number of bemused reactions on social media.

One joked: 'F****** hell the UK have their own Taylor Swift Super Bowl situation.'

A second fan wrote: 'This is the most random thing I've ever seen. Harry Styles... at Kenilworth Road??'

Another joked of the As It Was singer's shared last name with a United legend of yesteryear: 'His great uncle Nobby played for Utd.'

Erik ten Hag's side wasted little time giving their famous fan something to cheer about, with Rasmus Hojlund continuing his hot streak to fire them ahead after just 37 seconds.

The Dane then doubled United's lead within the first ten minutes of clash to take his Premier League tally for the season to seven with all of them coming in his last six appearances.

Carlton Morris hit back for the hosts but Rob Edwards' side were unable to find an equaliser as United claimed all three points.