Sydney Sweeney reunited with her Anyone But You leading man Glen Powell at the 49th People's Choice Awards in Santa Monica on Sunday night.

The 26-year-old actress led the audience in a rousing sing-a-long of Natasha Bedingfield's 2004 hit Unwritten, which was prominently featured in Will Gluck's$126.6M-grossing rom-com starring the pair.

'My serenity song is not going to help,' the 35-year-old actor groaned.

Sydney - taking the plunge in a red Mônot gown - shot back: 'C'mon Glen, you have to trust me!'

After everyone belted a few lyrics, Glen stopped the sing-a-long only for Sweeney to announce: 'Okay, then it's time to bring in the big guns, Natasha Bedingfield!'

Sydney Sweeney (R) reunited with her Anyone But You leading man Glen Powell (L) at the 49th People's Choice Awards in Santa Monica on Sunday night

At that point, the crowd roared as the British 42-year-old joined the pair onstage the Barker Hangar to continue singing Unwritten.

The Spokane-born, LA-raised bombshell, Powell, and Bedingfield then shifted gears to present Lainey Wilson with the female country artist of the year trophy.

Sydney and the strapping Texan were also at the fan-voted ceremony to compete for the comedy movie star of the year trophy, which eventually went to Jennifer Lawrence.

And the talented twosome's dismally-reviewed Australian-set film lost the trophy for comedy movie of the year to Barbie during the NBC telecast.

It was a full-circle moment for Sweeney and Powell, who originally met onstage the Barker Hangar two years earlier when he and Top Gun: Maverick co-star Jay Ellis presented her with the trophy for best fight during the MTV Movie & TV Awards.

Anyone But You was loosely based on William Shakespeare's 1600 comedy Much Ado About Nothing, and the bickering lead characters Benedick and Beatrice do wind up together in the end.

Indeed, much ado has been made over the chemistry both on and off-screen between the coy pair, but they've both repeatedly denied on-set affair allegations.

The two-time Emmy nominee was literally the person who hired Glen to be her onscreen leading man and she also hired the director Will Gluck after developed the spec script over the course of a year.

The 26-year-old actress led the audience in a rousing sing-a-long of Natasha Bedingfield's 2004 hit Unwritten, which was prominently featured in Will Gluck's$126.6M-grossing rom-com starring the pair

The 35-year-old actor (L) groaned: 'My serenity song is not going to help'

Sydney - taking the plunge in a red Mônot gown - shot back: 'C'mon Glen, you have to trust me!'

After everyone belted a few lyrics, Glen stopped the sing-a-long only for Sweeney to announce: 'Okay, then it's time to bring in the big guns, Natasha Bedingfield!'

At that point, the crowd roared as the British 42-year-old (M) joined the pair onstage the Barker Hangar to continue singing Unwritten

The Spokane-born, LA-raised bombshell, Powell, and Bedingfield then shifted gears to present Lainey Wilson (2-R) with the female country artist of the year trophy

Sydney and the strapping Texan were also at the fan-voted ceremony to compete for the comedy movie star of the year trophy, which eventually went to Jennifer Lawrence

And the talented twosome's dismally-reviewed Australian-set film lost the trophy for comedy movie of the year to Barbie during the NBC telecast

It was a full-circle moment for Sweeney and Powell, who originally met onstage the Barker Hangar two years earlier when he and Top Gun: Maverick co-star Jay Ellis (M) presented her with the trophy for best fight during the MTV Movie & TV Awards

Anyone But You was loosely based on William Shakespeare's 1600 comedy Much Ado About Nothing, and the bickering lead characters Benedick and Beatrice do wind up together in the end

Indeed, much ado has been made over the chemistry both on and off-screen between the coy pair, but they've both repeatedly denied on-set affair allegations

As for an Anyone But You sequel, Sydney teased to E! News last week: 'I was talking to [Glen] this morning. We're talking about stuff. You never know, you'll have to wait and see!'

Sweeney currently plays Spider-Woman Julia Carpenter in S.J. Clarkson's dismally-reviewed film Madame Web, which has earned $51.5M of its $80M budget back since opening last Wednesday

Glen will next produce and star as college professor-turned-undercover mole Gary Johnson in Richard Linklater's critically-acclaimed action comedy Hit Man, which premieres June 7 on Netflix

People's Choice Awards 2024 Winners At a Glance

Music Male artist of the year: Jung Kook (WINNER) Female artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Male country artist of the year: Jelly Roll (WINNER) Female country artist of the year: Lainey Wilson (WINNER) Male Latin artist of the year: Bad Bunny (WINNER) Female Latin artist of the year: Shakira (WINNER) Pop artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Hip-hop artist of the year: Nicki Minaj (WINNER) R&B artist of the year: Beyoncé (WINNER) New artist of the year: Ice Spice (WINNER) Group/duo of the year: Stray Kids (WINNER) Song of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, “Vampire” (WINNER) Album of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, Guts (WINNER) Collaboration song of the year: Nicki Minaj & Ice Spice with Aqua, “Barbie World” (WINNER) Concert tour of the year: Taylor Swift, The Eras Tour (WINNER) Movies Movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Action movie of the year: The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Drama movie of the year: Oppenheimer (WINNER) Male movie star of the year: Ryan Gosling, Barbie (WINNER) Female movie star of the year: Margot Robbie, Barbie (WINNER) Margot Robbie is a leading contender for female movie star of the year for Barbie Action movie star of the year: Rachel Zegler, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie star of the year: Jennifer Lawrence, No Hard Feelings (WINNER) Drama movie star of the year Jenna Ortega, Scream VI (WINNER) Movie performance of the year America Ferrera, Barbie (WINNER) TV Show of the year: Grey’s Anatomy (WINNER) Comedy show of the year: Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Drama show of the year: The Last of Us (WINNER) Sci-fi/fantasy show of the year: Loki (WINNER) Reality show of the year: The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition show of the year: The Voice (WINNER) Bingeworthy show of the year: The Summer I Turned Pretty (WINNER) Male TV star of the year: Pedro Pascal, The Last of Us (WINNER) Female TV star of the year: Selena Gomez, Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Comedy TV star of the year: Jeremy Allen White, The Bear (WINNER) Drama TV star of the year: Jennifer Aniston, The Morning Show (WINNER) TV performance of the year Billie Eilish, Swarm (WINNER) Reality TV star of the year Khloé Kardashian, The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition contestant of the year Ariana Madix, Dancing with the Stars (WINNER) Daytime talk show of the year The Kelly Clarkson Show (WINNER) Nighttime talk show of the year The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon (WINNER) Host of the year Jimmy Fallon, That’s My Jam (WINNER) Pop Culture Social celebrity of the year Taylor Swift (WINNER) Comedy act of the year Chris Rock, Selective Outrage (WINNER) Athlete of the year Travis Kelce (WINNER) Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

'It's a rom-com,' Sydney explained to Variety last August of the ridiculous rumors.

'That's what people want! Glen and I don't really care. We have so much fun together, and we respect each other so much; he's such a hard worker, and I'm a hard worker. We're excited for the press tour, and I literally just left ADR with him. We talk all the time like, "That's really funny."

Sweeney - who's engaged to Chicago restaurateur Jonathan Davino - added: 'The [public wants] it. It's fun to give it to them.'

As for an Anyone But You sequel, the Reality actress teased to E! News last week: 'I was talking to [Glen] this morning. We're talking about stuff. You never know, you'll have to wait and see!'

Sydney currently plays Spider-Woman Julia Carpenter in S.J. Clarkson's dismally-reviewed film Madame Web, which has earned $51.5M of its $80M budget back since opening last Wednesday.

The 116-minute superhero movie - set in the year 2003 - also features Dakota Johnson, Celeste O'Connor, Isabel Merced, Tahar Rahim, Adam Scott, Emma Roberts, Zosia Mamet, and Mike Epps.

Sweeney also produced and stars as the miraculously pregnant Catholic nun Cecilia in Michael Mohan's psychological horror Immaculate, which hits US theaters March 22.

Euphoria creator Sam Levinson reportedly began production on the third season of his hit Max teen drama last month, so fans can expect more of the Miu Miu brand ambassador as Cassie Howard.

Powell will next produce and star as college professor-turned-undercover mole Gary Johnson in Richard Linklater's critically-acclaimed action comedy Hit Man, which premieres June 7 on Netflix.

The SAG Award winner will also play storm chaser Tyler Owens in Lee Isaac Chung's Twisters - hitting US/UK theaters July 19 - which is a sequel to Jan de Bont's 1996 film Twister starring Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt.