There isn't anything 'plane' about this luxury villa.

A new YouTube video takes viewers inside a retired Boeing 737 which has been converted into a stunning place to stay for the night, complete with a jacuzzi in the cockpit, a balcony out of one of the exit doors and a terrace fashioned out of one of the wings.

The quirky two-bedroom villa which sits on the edge of a cliff in Bali, Indonesia, was the brainchild of Russian entrepreneur Felix Demin and he spent two years making the vessel into a livable space after purchasing it for an undisclosed amount from the now defunct company Mandala Airlines.

Now stays in the renovated aircraft start from $1,600 a night, and for guests who want to arrive in style, there is a helipad in the garden.

In the YouTube tour, Anisha, from the Balitecture channel, starts in the lobby area, which is located under the aircraft.

A new YouTube video takes viewers inside a retired Boeing 737 which has been converted into a stunning place to stay for the night, complete with a jacuzzi in the cockpit and a terrace fashioned out of one of the wings

The quirky two-bedroom villa which sits on the edge of a cliff in Bali, Indonesia, was the brainchild of Russian entrepreneur Felix Demin

He spent two years making it into a livable space after purchasing it from the now defunct company Mandala Airlines

In the YouTube tour, Anisha, from Balitecture, takes people through the very unique property. She's pictured above standing in one of the bedrooms

Now stays in the renovated aircraft start from $1,600 a night, and for guests who want to arrive in style, there is a helipad in the garden

The businessman purchased the aircraft - which was last in service in 2014 - in Bali for an undisclosed amount using financing from investors

Other perks of the villa, as captured in drone footage, include a fire pit area and an infinity edged pool

There, Felix hands her her 'boarding pass' for a night's stay, and she is greeted by staff members with a cool towel and refreshing beverage.

Before Anisha heads up a floating aircraft to view the interiors, Felix explains to her that he is eager to show her 'how my dream became a reality' and he describes the whole thing as a 'crazy project.'

The businessman purchased the aircraft - which was last in service in 2014 - in Bali for an undisclosed amount, using financing from investors.

Currently on the aviation sales site controller.com, decommissioned commercial Boeing 737s range from $2.6 million to $6.5 million.

He said that the disassembled plane was about to be sold as scrap metal to China when he purchased it.

After buying the jet, he then went about finding a plot of land that would make for a top photography spot.

It took a week to transport the plane's parts to the cliff after securing the necessary access permits and it was then craned into position.

The project was derailed for some time due to the COVID pandemic but work started in earnest in 2021, and the Private Jet Villa officially opened in December 2023.

On entering the villa, Anisha stops in the dining area, where she explains how guests can request their own private chef or 'caviar, champagne... the sky is the limit!'

There is also a fully equipped kitchen, and a cream-toned living area leads off from this space.

It took a week to transport the plane's parts to the cliff after securing the necessary access permits and it was then craned into position

The project was derailed for some time due to the COVID pandemic but work started in earnest in 2021, and the Private Jet Villa officially opened in December 2023

On entering the villa, Anisha stops in the dining area, where she explains how guests can request their own private chef or 'caviar, champagne... the sky is the limit!'

Felix said that the disassembled plane was about to be sold as scrap metal to China when he purchased it

After buying the jet, he then went about finding a plot of land that would make for a top photography spot

Many viewers have given the quirky property a thumbs up. One commenter wrote: 'Absolutely mind-blowing! The fusion of luxury and aviation in this airplane hotel is pure genius'

Felix says 'my dream became a reality' and he describes the whole thing as a 'crazy project.' Above, a photo of the plane being craned into position before its makeover

Anisha then moves through to one of the bedrooms where she showcases the automatic window blinds, a deep freestanding tub and a netted balcony out of an exit door overlooking the ocean.

In the other 'first class' bedroom, the upgrade comes in the form of a jacuzzi, which Felix went about installing in the cockpit area of the plane for top-notch views of the jungle surrounds.

Moving outside, Anisha tells viewers that she is going to show them 'something even more special,' and she takes a walk along one of the aircraft wings, which has been transformed into a terrace area.

As she looks out from the tip of the wing, she exclaims: 'This amazing view! It's very breathtaking. It feels like I'm on the edge of Bali!'

Other perks of the villa, as captured in drone footage, include a fire pit area and an infinity edged pool.

Summing up her day at the Private Jet Villa, Anisha says it's been 'unforgettable.'

Many viewers have given the quirky property a thumbs up.

One commenter wrote: 'Absolutely mind-blowing! The fusion of luxury and aviation in this airplane hotel is pure genius.'

Another fan mused: 'What an insane concept.'

For more information on the Private Jet Villa, visit privatejetvilla.com