Vera Wang was the epitome of glamour in a stunning white gown as she arrived at London's Peninsula Hotel for the BAFTA Gala 2024 on Thursday.

The fashion legend, 74, caught the eye in the elegant garment, which featured a matching hood.

She added an edgy touch to her ensemble with a pair of black detachable sleeves, while her maxi dress covered her shoes.

The New York-born stylist - known for her luxurious bridal gowns brand - had her long chocolate locks in a poker straight style.

She opted for a pale make-up look and a touch of black eyeshadow.

Vera Wang, 74, was the epitome of glamour in a stunning white gown as she arrived at London's Peninsula Hotel for the BAFTA Gala 2024 on Thursday

The fashion legend caught the eye in the elegant garment, which featured a matching hood

The fashion designer stormed the orange carpet while dazzling under the limelights, posing with a hand on her waist.

Vera also posed inside the glitzy hotel, striking a few looks in the lense.

She was captured posing alongside women’s apparel design executive Robert Barnowske.

Wang, who shocked fans last year when she showed off her toned physique and youthful complexion in a series of pictures from her 73rd birthday bash, recently admitted her biggest concern is avoiding a physical disability.

Speaking exclusively to DailyMail.com at the DKMS Gala at Cipriani Wall Street, she said: 'I think what happens sometimes as you age... I'm more frightened about physical disabilities... not all this.

'I'm not totally preoccupied with how I look. I love my work, and I'm very passionate about my work, my friends, my daughters... I mean, I have a very full life.'

Asked if she has gained more confidence with age, Wang replied: 'I've devoted my whole life to dressing women and styling women.

'From my years at Vogue magazine, I was an editor for 17 years, to working for Ralph Lauren, designing for my own company, my whole life has been about empowering women.'

The number featured a matching hood as Vera joined a slew of stars in attendance for the event, which took place ahead of Sunday's BAFTA Film Awards

She added an edgy touch to her ensemble with a pair of black detachable sleeves

Wang, who shocked fans last year when she showed off her toned physique and youthful complexion in a series of pictures from her 73rd birthday bash

She opted for a pale make-up look and a touch of black eyeshadow

The New York-born stylist - known for her luxurious bridal gowns brand - had her long chocolate locks in a poker straight style

Vera also posed inside the glitzy hotel, striking a few looks in the lens. She was captured posing alongside women’s apparel design executive Robert Barnowske

She was captured posing alongside women’s apparel design executive Robert Barnowske

The fashion alum looked in good spirits as she beamed while captured at the table

Wang resigned from Ralph Lauren at the age of 40 and became an independent bridal wear designer, creating custom made gowns for the likes of Ariana Grande, Alicia Keys, Mariah Carey, Victoria Beckham and Kim Kardashian.

Asked if she has any plans to retire ahead of her 75th birthday in June 2024, she said: I'm not sure yet. I'll be like Rafael Nadal... for the moment, no.'

The mother-of-two, who is reportedly worth an estimated $650million, previously stunned fans when she posted a series of images of herself flashing her toned midriff and long legs in an orange sports bra and white shorts to model her own accessory designs for David's Bridal.