Kourtney Kardashian and her son Reign had an up close and personal encounter with a giraffe during a fun trip to the Taronga Zoo in Sydney, Australia, on Thursday.

The 44-year-old reality star was spotted rocking an edgy casual look while accompanying her nine-year-old son, whom she shares with her ex Scott Disick.

She was also seen at the zoo with her husband Travis Barker, who held her hand sweetly.

Kourtney has been touring Australia with the 48-year-old drummer as he and his Blink-182 bandmates Mark Hoppus and Tom DeLonge tour the continent.

The older sister of Kim Kardashian looked casual-cool in a gray cropped bomber jacket with puffy sleeves.

Kourtney Kardashian and her son Reign had an up close and personal encounter with a giraffe during a fun trip to the Taronga Zoo in Sydney, Australia, on Thursday

The 44-year-old reality star was spotted rocking an edgy casual look while accompanying her nine-year-old son, whom she shares with her ex Scott Disick

She wore the jacket open to reveal a hint of her charcoal T-shirt repping the classic heavy metal band Motörhead.

She stayed on theme with a pair of black Dickies X Estevan Oriol pants that had 'Laugh Now — Cry Never' stitched over one of the thighs.

The Poosh founder accessorized with a small black handbag and a stylish pair of slim black sunglasses to beat back the piercing daylight.

She rocked a set of Vans Vault UA Old Skool LX sneakers by Mastermind World — which Travis was also seen wearing — that retail for around $125.

Kourtney perfectly matched her punk rock ensemble with her raven hair, which was parted down the middle and styled into a sleek long bob.

She was pictured holding hands with Reign as they walked down a set of stairs to the pen where a giraffe came to greet them.

The celebrity son wore a gray graphic hoodie contrasting a pair of brown leopard-print pants.

He had his hair cut short after years of sporting long hair, and he had on a large hip bag.

She was also seen at the zoo with her husband Travis Barker, who held her hand sweetly, though he wasn't seen during the animal encounter

Kourtney has been touring Australia with the 48-year-old drummer as he and his Blink-182 bandmates Mark Hoppus and Tom DeLonge tour the continent

The older sister of Kim Kardashian looked casual-cool in a gray cropped bomber jacket with puffy sleeves. She wore it open to reveal a Motörhead T-shirt

She stayed on theme with a pair of black Dickies X Estevan Oriol pants that had 'Laugh Now — Cry Never' stitched over one of the thighs

Reign appeared to get some one-on-one time with the zoo keepers before his giraffe encounter

Reign appeared to get some one-on-one time with the zoo keepers before his giraffe encounter.

Kourtney stood off to the side, but she rejoined him as soon as the majestic creature strolled up to the railing, which was raised slightly so that its head was nearly level with the humans.

The mother–son duo appeared to have long carrots to offer the giraffe as a treat, and it was seen craning its neck to nibble on Reign's veggie.

Kourtney appeared to be filming the interaction, possibly for her family's Hulu series The Kardashians, as a camera crew was pictured flanking her.

Earlier, the social media star and her husband Travis shocked locals when they dropped into a local café in Mosman to pick up some iced coffees before they were chauffeured to the zoo.

The brunette beauty was spoiled rotten on Valentine's Day in Sydney after the rocker sent a hundred red roses to the mansion the couple and their children are residing in for part of their trip Down Under.

Kourtney shared a photo of the impressive bouquet on her Instagram page on Thursday.

Earlier this week, she shared new details about where her baby son Rocky was conceived.

The mother–son duo appeared to have long carrots to offer the giraffe as a treat, and it was seen craning its neck to nibble on Reign's veggie

Kourtney appeared to be filming the interaction, possibly for her family's Hulu series The Kardashians, as a camera crew was pictured flanking her

The reality star shared a photo of the impressive bouquet Travis gave her for Valentine's Day on Instagram

Kourtney revealed on Tuesday, February 13, that she conceived her baby son Rocky, three months, on a trip 'one year ago today' at the Amangiri resort in Utah

In Instagram snaps on Tuesday from 'one year ago today,' she showed that she and Travis conceived the three-month-old boy during a wintry trip to the swanky Amangiri resort in Utah.

The drummer made it even more explicit with his comment on the post: 'We made baby Rocky 🖤.'

Kourtney previously said that Rocky, who was born in November of last year, had been conceived on Valentine's Day of 2023.

Although Travis likely meant his comment 'We made baby Rocky' to be a loving clarification to Kourtney's vague caption, several Instagram users found it to be a major case of too much information.