UFC legend Nate Diaz has revealed to social media influencer Sneako how he came up with the idea to slap Conor McGregor during their historic pair of fights in 2016.

Diaz and McGregor memorably faced off inside the Octagon twice in the space of five months, with both men claiming a victory apiece. Diaz shocked the world in their first bout by submitting McGregor in the second round, but the Irishman gained revenge in their rematch when he won on points after a back-and-forth battle.

The two fights are remembered for Diaz coming on strongly after starting slowly, and he landed his infamous 'Stockton slap' on McGregor as he grew in confidence.

During a recent training session with Sneako, Diaz explained why he opted to use the brutal smack against his bitter rival.

'One time, I was sparring and I threw a hook, and I think it was (for) Conor, and I went like this (throws a lead hook), and he was like (sways backwards) right out the way,' Diaz demonstrated.

Nate Diaz demonstrated how he managed to slap Conor McGregor in their two fights in 2016

He explained that he opted to do it as he realised he was out of range if he tried a punch

Diaz landed the slap on his rival during his shock win over the Irishman in March 2016

He repeated the slap in their rematch five months later, but lost on points to McGregor

Nate Diaz shows SNEAKO how he slapped Conor McGregor 👀‼️ pic.twitter.com/Spt2Z8l6yg — soldier of GOD (@amelio777) February 14, 2024

'So, I opened my hand and I still got him! Like, "gotcha b****!'

Sneako appeared impressed by the tactic, as he asked: 'It was just to get into the range?' to which Diaz responded 'Yeah!'

Diaz has become known for slapping opponents in fights ever since the clashes with McGregor, having also taken on the likes of Jorge Masvidal, Leon Edwards and Tony Ferguson in recent years.

But he stepped away from the UFC in 2022 after beating Ferguson and has since turned his hand to boxing, where the slap is not possible to land due to bigger gloves being used.

He fought YouTube sensation Jake Paul last August and was dropped on his way to losing a points decision.

His next career move remains unclear, but rumours of a trilogy bout with McGregor have refused to go away, suggesting he may get the chance to try and land a slap on the UFC star once more before he finally calls time on his fighting days.