American tourist Troy Bohling is set to stand trial in Germany today, accused of the rape and murder of fellow US tourist Eva Liu, after luring her and her friend from a hiking trail near the famed 'Cinderella' castle.

Bohling is also charged with attempted murder of the victim's friend, Kelsey Chang, also an American citizen.

The two women, then 21 and 22 years old, had been hiking in the area in June last year when they met Bohling, who offered to take them to a viewpoint.

At a secluded spot, Bohling, then 30, allegedly pushed the Liu to the ground and proceeded to rape and strangle her.

Her friend intervened, leading to a scuffle in which the accused allegedly pushed Chang off a slope.

Troy Bohling and his girlfriend. Eva Liu and Kelsey Chang had been hiking in the area in June last year when they met Bohling, who offered to take them to a viewpoint

Troy Bohling being led away by the police in handcuffs. He fled the scene but was caught after a police operation involving 25 emergency vehicles

Bohling has been charged with the murder of 21-year-old Eva Liu (left). He is also charged with the attempted murder of her 22-year-old friend Kelsey Chang (right)

The Neuschwanstein castle in Bavaria. It said Bohling had never met the two women before bumping into them on a hiking trail with views across the castle said to be the inspiration for Disney's Cinderella castle

After luring them away from a hiking trail to a vantage point he pounced on Liu and threw her to the ground where he attempted to rip her clothes off and carry out 'sexual acts', according to the statement. When her friend went to try and help, he threw her down a steep slope 'knowing she would be fatally injured'

The accused then strangled Liu and pushed her down the same slope while she was unconscious.

When mountain rescue workers found the two women, Chang was injured but able to talk.

The rape victim was seriously injured and taken by helicopter to hospital, where she died later that night as a result of her injuries.

German daily Bild reported that the accused had filmed part of his assault.

The rescue operation and his subsequent arrest took place in front of hundreds of tourists, Bild added.

Built in the 19th century by King Lugwig II, Neuschwanstein castle is one of the most visited sites in Germany, attracting over a million visitors a year.

Bohling faces up to life in prison if convicted.

Bohling was also found to have child pornography on his phone and laptop after being arrested at the scene of the horrific incident.

Troy Phillip Bohling, 30, was identified as the man who pushed two women down a 165ft ravine near Neuschwanstein castle in Bavaria

The two recent American graduates had met Bohling as they visited the Neuschwanstein castle.

Bohling, from Lincoln Park, Michigan, was arrested immediately at the scene. In accordance with German law, he has not been officially identified by police but sources gave his name as Bohling.

Other tourists witnessed the assault and later filmed Bohling as he was led away in handcuffs by police.

A statement from the Kempten public prosecutor's office revealed the full shocking details of the attack.

It said Bohling had never met the two women before bumping into them on a hiking trail with views across the castle said to be the inspiration for Disney's Cinderella castle.

After luring them away from a hiking trail to a vantage point he pounced on Liu and threw her to the ground where he attempted to rip her clothes off and carry out 'sexual acts', according to the statement.

When her friend went to try and help, he threw her down a steep slope 'knowing she would be fatally injured'.

He then raped and strangled Liu before also throwing her body down the slope where she slammed into a tree.

Liu died from her injuries while her friend survived with a head injury and bruises.

Both women were flown by air ambulance to hospital where Liu was pronounced dead.

As part of the investigation police seized the suspect's laptop and mobile phone where they found child porn.

Under German law Bohlin has not entered a plea and is still being held in custody.

Built in the 19th century by King Lugwig II, Neuschwanstein castle is one of the most visited sites in Germany, attracting over a million visitors a year

The castle where Illinois university graduate Eva Liu was killed is in Bavaria close to the Austrian border

A spokesman for the Kempten prosecutors said charges of murder, rape resulting in death, attempted murder with grievous bodily harm and possession of child pornography will be put before the court.

Liu, from Naperville, Illinois and Chang, from Bloomington, Illinois, were on a European trip of a lifetime having graduated University of Illinois.

The college confirmed the death of Liu.

Bohling lived with his brother Trevor in a single-story house about 20 minutes from Detroit.

Neighbors described him as 'quiet' and not very friendly and said the brothers were often away for long periods of time.

They assumed the pair worked in oil fields.

When contacted his parents denied he was in Germany.