Jamie Redknapp has lauded Rasmus Hojlund for finding his feet and excelling under 'unbelievable' pressure at Manchester United.

Hojlund scored twice inside the first seven minutes as Manchester United scraped to a 2-1 win at Luton, surviving a late onslaught at Kenilworth Road.

In doing so he became the youngest-ever player to score in six consecutive Premier League games.

Jamie Redknapp thinks he has gone about his business in the right way and claims he never doubted him - even though it took him 14 top-flight outings to find the net.

'Unbelievable pressure for a young man. United had Yorke, Cole, Solskjaer, they could bring on an abundance of forwards,' Redknapp told Sky Sports.

"That's not because Jim Ratcliffe is playing left wing"



Jamie Redknapp believes Rasmus Højlund deserves the credit for his turnaround in form 🔁 pic.twitter.com/yzZWFtINc5 — Sky Sports Premier League (@SkySportsPL) February 18, 2024

Jamie Redknapp has hailed Rasmus Hojlund for thriving under 'unbelievable pressure'

The Manchester United forward has scored in six consecutive Premier League appearances

Your browser does not support iframes.

'He's had to play pretty much every game. I didn't have any doubts. I like what he does. He uses his body extremely well.'

Sky pundit Curtis Davies backed up his praise, adding: 'It's always going to be a difficult game for you, he puts himself about. I love the way he spoke. He spoke about I do these things for the team.'

Tom Lockyer, the Luton captain who suffered a cardiac arrest at Kenilworth Road in December during a match against Bournemouth, appeared as a pundit and also gave Hojlund his due applause.

He said: 'He's one of those strikers you know you're in for a tough day with. You can't switch off. You've always got to be on your game. He's a real handful.

'He's quick enough to go in behind as well. You've got to try and read the ball into him.

'The manager deserves credit. He paid £80million for Antony and he's not playing him. It's a front three that possesses a lot of quality. Hojlund is the focal point in that. He's got that confidence, he's got his shoulders back. He was absolutely phenomenal today.'

Hojlund was billed as a £72m failure when he initially failed to find his feet at Old Trafford.

Despite good form in the Champions League, Hojlund was profligate in front of goal as United stumbled through the opening months of the season.

Hojlund didn't score in his first 14 Premier League outings but is now inspiring United's top four push

However, his improvement has coincided with a stint of blistering form for the Red Devils, who have won four on the trot and remain unbeaten in 2024.

Still only 21, he has plenty of time to improve, but he is starting to repay the faith United paid in the currency that really matters to them in their Champions League qualification quest: goals, and lots of them.