Gabby Barrett and husband Cade Foehner have welcomed their third child together.

The country singer, 23, announced the arrival in a joint post with the proud papa, 28, Saturday.

'Our third baby arrived earth side early this morning, at home. Another life to love and cherish. Praising God for His kindness!' the I Hope singer, who revealed she was expecting baby number three in August, wrote next to a photo of the little one's feet.

The couple revealed their daughter's name, 'Ivy Josephine Foehner' but indicated they will call her 'Ivy Jo ✨'

The arrival comes two weeks after Gabby released her latest album, Chapter & Verse.

Gabby Barrett, 23, and husband Cade Foehner, 28, announced the arrival of their third child Saturday. 'Our third baby arrived earth side early this morning, at home. Another life to love and cherish. Praising God for His kindness!' the I Hope singer wrote on social media (Pictured in Frisco, TX in May 2023)

The couple share two older children: daughter Baylah May, three, who arrived in January 2021, and son Augustine Boone, 16 months.

The pair surprised their fans when they announced the pregnancy in October, sharing photos of the ultrasound and revealing they were expecting a girl.

Gabby and Cade met in 2018 when they were both contestants on season 16 of ABC's American Idol.

That meeting quickly turned into a TV romance that led them to announcing their engagement a year after their season of American Idol wrapped.

The couple both finished in the Top 5 of American Idol during their runs on season 16, but Maddie Poppe was ultimately crowned the winner over runner-up Caleb Lee Hutchinson.

Cade popped the question while the pair were visiting their pastor in Los Angeles — at the same hotel where they first met — according to Page Six.

Their engagement lasted around seven months. Gabby and Cade tied-the-knot on October 5, 2019, in a ceremony in Texas while surrounded by close family and friends.

The ceremony for the deeply religious couple was performed by former soccer star Jeremy Vuolo, 36, the husband of Counting On's Jinger Duggar, 30.

The couple shared a photo of the little one's feet, revealing her full name, Ivy Josephine Foehner, but indicating they would be calling her Ivy Jo

The couple met on the set of season 16 of American Idol in 2018, and and married in October 2019

The couple share two older children: daughter Baylah May, three, who arrived in January 2021, and son Augustine Boone, 16 months

The couple announced they were expecting their third child in October, sharing photos from the ultrasound revealing they were expecting a healthy baby girl

Gabby delivered her first single, I Hope, in 2019. It was the first country single by an unaccompanied woman to reach the top of the Billboard Hot Country Songs since 2017.

Her debut album, Goldmine, was released in 2020 and quickly broke the record for the largest streaming week ever for a debut country album by a woman.

In between touring and raising children, Gabby released her latest single Glory Days, in June 2023, as the first track to promote her second album, Chapter & Verse.

The baby arrived two weeks after Gabby delivered her second album, Chapter & Verse

The video for Glory Days shows scenes from the couple's family life on their ranch in Texas.

Cade praised Chapter & Verse, writing, 'Gabby has accomplished an astounding body of work and I am blessed beyond measure to have a such a Woman who can adorn the doctrine of the Christian life so compellingly through song.

'Praise God from whom all blessings flow!' he wrote.

The singer and musician revealed he also contributed to the lyrics on several of the tracks on the album.