Rebecca Adlington has said she'll 'never get over her miscarriage' as she discussed the 'tough' year her family have had.

The former competitive swimmer, 34, announced she lost her daughter Harper in a devastating late miscarriage in October 2023 - after she lost another child at 12 weeks in 2022.

Rebecca already shares son Albie, two, with husband Andy Parsons as well as daughter Summer, eight, from her previous marriage to swimmer Harry Needs.

Discussing what the last year has been like for her and her family, Rebecca told The Mirror: 'My miscarriage last October, physically and emotionally, the back end of last year was tough.

'We’ll never fully get over what happened, but Harper will always be part of our family. Even my two-year-old, Albie, tells people, "My sisters are Harper and Summer."

Rebecca Adlington has said she'll 'never get over her miscarriage' as she discussed the 'tough' year her family have had

The former competitive swimmer, 34, announced she lost her daughter Harper in a devastating late miscarriage in October 2023 - after she lost another child at 12 weeks in 2022

'Her ashes are now in the house. We talk about her, she’ll always be part of our lives. I think you learn to find a way forward and to talk about her, without bursting into tears.'

Rebecca announced the heartbreaking loss of her daughter Harper on Instagram last year.

She penned: 'I don't really have the words right now but unfortunately we went for our 20 week scan this week and they found no heartbeat.

'I gave birth to our angel, Harper on Friday at 7pm. We held her, and had time with her. We will forever love her and remember her always.'

Rebecca continued by paying tribute to staff at her local hospital, writing: 'We cant thank the staff at Wythenshawe enough.'

She then paid tribute to her husband, saying that his 'selfless support, love and help is truly amazing. I couldnt of survived without you.'

'I don't have the strength or words right now, and don't feel ready to share this news. However, I can't pretend to be OK or fake a smile. I can't have people ask me how pregnancy is or when I am due as I still look pregnant.

'We are so truly heartbroken. Our beautiful girl. Rest in peace, the sportswoman ended her post.

Announcement: Last month, Rebecca revealed she was expecting another child with husband Andy Parsons, a year after the couple suffered a devastating miscarriage

Her post was flooded with kind support from her friends and followers who offered messages of support.

The NHS states: 'A stillbirth is when a baby is born dead after 24 completed weeks of pregnancy. If the baby dies before 24 completed weeks, it's known as a miscarriage or late foetal loss.'

Rebecca revealed her third pregnancy in September this year - a year after the couple suffered a devastating miscarriage.

Rebecca captioned her social media post: 'Our own bit of magic Baby number 3 on the way'.

It comes after Rebecca said she feels 'responsible' for the tragic miscarriage she suffered last year and revealed how the heartbreak made her reluctant to try again for a third child.

Rebecca went in to hospital for her 12-week-scan and later had to go down for the emergency surgery after discovering she had miscarried the child.

After being sent home following the surgery, Rebecca had to be readmitted to treat sepsis, a kidney infection and a fever.

In an interview with The Mirror , Rebecca said: 'Because I'd had two children without any problems, a miscarriage never crossed my mind. I realise this might sound naïve, but I expected some signs.

'I felt really responsible for the miscarriage, even though it wasn't my fault. I remember speaking to the doctors and they said there was nothing I could have done to prevent what happened.'

'But you've got all this pressure to protect something – this delicate being, this precious, special, incredible baby – for nine months, and it just seemed crazy because I've done it twice before and been absolutely fine.'

Last year Rebecca went in to hospital for her 12-week-scan and later had to go down for the emergency surgery after discovering she had miscarried the child

Happy: Andy and Rebecca tied the knot back in August with a Cheshire ceremony, five months after welcoming their son (pictured showing off their wedding rings)

Athlete: Rebecca won two gold medals at the 2008 Olympics and two bronze medals at London 2012

Andy and Rebecca tied the knot back in August with a Cheshire ceremony, five months after welcoming their son.

The pair met on dating app Bumble in 2018, with the swimmer gushing after their wedding 'It worked out perfectly for us. We couldn't be happier'.

The couple started dating two years after the swimmer split from her ex husband Harry, and she previously admitted she was nervous about finding love again.

The couple quickly fell in love and facilities manager Andy moved from Liverpool to live with Becky in Manchester in 2019.

Rebecca, who won two gold medals at the 2008 Olympics and two bronze medals at London 2012, was previously married to Summer's father Harry - with the pair splitting in 2016.

As a result of Rebecca's two gold medal win at the 2008 Summer Olympics, she became Britain's first Olympic swimming champion since 1988. In 2013, aged 23, she retired from all competitive swimming.

If you have been affected by this story, you can seek advice at www.miscarriageassociation.org.uk or www.tommys.org or by calling 01924 200 799