I'm buzzing for this weekend's game against Wales. It's my favourite match of the lot. Sometimes I need to go for a little lie down because I get so excited. The rivalry, the history, the venom. It's top notch.

I have a love-hate relationship with the Welsh. I love them, and they hate me. Can I blame them? No, I can't. There's always a spike in intensity and adrenaline when we play each other and sometimes it can get the better of you. I'm a walking, plodding example of that. I've lost my head in this fixture a couple of times… just ask Alun Wyn Jones and Samson Lee.

When Welsh people come up to me and have a pop, I sometimes tell them a little pork pie and say I'm half Welsh because I want them to like me. I've been cold-water swimming in Snowdonia and it was fantastic. I ate Welsh cakes, too. It's a lovely country with lovely people but when it comes to rugby we just seem to dislike each other.

An image that always sticks in my head is from 2019, when their old captain Alun Wyn Jones did an absolute number on Kyle Sinckler. There's a picture of Sink losing his head and Alun Wyn is just there smiling at him. He wound him up, got into his head and squeezed penalty after penalty out of him. I remember getting my arse handed to me at every scrum by Adam Jones back in the early days and then getting subbed off after 44 minutes. I was thinking: 'Oh my god, I'm never going to play for England again.'

A lot of players in our team are experiencing this fixture for the first time. We had a meeting about it on Monday night to try to best prepare them for it. Jamie George approached some of us older guys and asked if we would share a few of our experiences. We talked about the incidents with Kyle, Samson, Alun Wyn and told the guys to prepare for whatever bombs Warren Gatland throws out in the week. Everyone will experience that adrenaline spike on Saturday and we want to make sure it's used as a positive, rather than a negative. Everything goes up a notch in front of 82,000 fans. Whatever's happened before goes out the window. At that moment, it's fight or flight.

Mail Sport columnist - and England international - Joe Marler is always up for the fight against Six Nations opponents Wales

The prop always remembers Kyle Sinckler's testy 2019 encounter with Wales' Alun Wyn Jones

Marler had his own run-ins with the former national team captain and is looking forward to more needle at Twickenham

People will probably say that I'm not the best person to offer advice but I've failed so many times. But for better or for worse, I actually have some experience to share. Basically, the goal is to not do what I did. Stick to your job, stick to your task and leave the older boys to deal with the off-the-ball stuff that will inevitably take place.

At the same time, Twickenham is our gaff, our home, and we don't want anybody to take a backwards step. We've talked about how we want to make it a place that teams hate to visit. We want it to be bouncing. It lost a bit of that edge because we haven't delivered performances and that has to change. Twickenham can feel dead and flat but it can also be an amazing place to play. You'll always get the day-trippers but we want to give them a reason to get behind us.

I want the new caps to love it. They have brought so much energy and confidence, and at times we've had to temper that. On Tuesday, we were telling them not to whack the life out of guys like myself, Danny Care and Dan Cole. We want that spike to be on Saturday, not Tuesday.

They've added so much energy, on and off the pitch. I've spoken quite a lot with Ethan Roots about his journey to the England team. He had a pretty rough time of it prior to getting his gig at Exeter and he's worked hard. But what impressed me most was when he got on stage and nailed Take Me Home, Country Roads by John Denver after he made his debut in Rome! There was no hesitation whatsoever. It was a world apart from when I got on stage and sang Adele in 2012. I was more nervous about singing than the actual game against the Springboks.

Those boys all made a solid start against Italy and now we have plenty to build on. We want to give Twickenham something to shout about and there's no better team to do that against than Wales.

But the 33-year-old was keen to stress to his new team-mates that they shouldn't always follow in his footsteps

Marler has enjoyed gettng to know new caps including Ethan Roots during training camp

Now I can scoff media's creme brulee

As a columnist, I think I'm within my rights now to sneak into the media sessions to eat their food. Their crème brulees are fantastic, like a creamy frog.

I remember in 2015, around the time of the World Cup, Charlie Sale from the Daily Mail wrote something complaining that the food wasn't up to scratch in the media centre.

I was a proper helmet at the time – some say I still am – and I went to check it out. They had bacon sarnies with ketchup and I thought, 'How is this not up to scratch?'

But now I see they've got egg mayo brioche, tuna baguettes, chicken wraps, carrot and coriander soup and crème brulees. I guess all the media owe Charlie Sale a good lunch!

My other memory of Charlie is when myself, Coley, Manu Tuilagi and Ben Youngs went to Fegos at Sunningdale for some lunch. Charlie was sat in the corner doing his work and the next day he wrote in his column that we were womfing down this cake. And to be fair, we really were womfing it down.

Believe me, England's got talent!

Freddie Steward and Ollie Chessum have taken over from Jamie George and Danny Care in the Ant and Dec role of social committee. Hats off to them (and Sam Underhill) for putting on a brilliant England's Got Talent show with the new guys.

I'm fine with awkwardness but I just couldn't watch some of it. Fraser Dingwall can go all the way down on his haunches like the limbo and he caught an egg in his mouth without it breaking. Bit of a weird talent but it was fantastic. We had Manny Feyi-Waboso doing the Carlton dance from the Fresh Prince of Bel Air. Ethan Roots did this weird solo dance from Napoleon Dynamite, with the actual dance behind him on the projector. His timing was impeccable.

Ollie Chessum is one of the new heads of the social committee - with brilliant results already

A high point of England's Got Talent was Will Muir's impersonation of darts startlet Luke Littler

They had all day to rehearse and Fin Smith's production was unbelievable. He basically did a short-form production of Saltburn and then came out of nowhere to do the closing dance. Chandler Cunningham-South and Oscar Beard did a duet from High School Musical, doing Coley's head in because he could hear them practising in their room all day.

But my favourite was Will Muir. He loves Luke Littler and he came in wearing a replica Luke the Nuke shirt that he'd made himself using spray-paint. His act was that he would hit bullseye in nine darts and he got it in six. Max Ojomoh got up and sang but it was so flat that it's not worthy of mentioning!