Lizzo flaunted her 5ft10in curvaceous figure in black lace lingerie from her shapewear brand Yitty the day after Valentine's Day.

The 35-year-old rapper-singer-flautist was modeling her company's $64.95 'Smoothing Lace Plunge Bralette' and $29.95 'Smoothing Lace Thong' available in sizes XS-6X.

Lizzo (born Melissa Jefferson) might have been wearing 'fake' green contact lenses for the bra-and-panty shoot, but her 'real hair' was styled in a curly updo by Bowie 'Nunie' Stoner.

Make-up artist Alexx Mayo applied the four-time Grammy winner's false lashes, defined brows, pink blush, and overlined red lips.

Two years ago, Lizzo co-created Yitty with Kristen Dykstra in collaboration with Kate Hudson's activewear brand Fabletics.

Lizzo flaunted her 5ft10in curvaceous figure in black lace lingerie from her shapewear brand Yitty the day after Valentine's Day

If you compare footage of the 'body-normative' activist from a year ago, it's clear she's been whittling away at her famously full figure due to Pilates workouts at her $24M three-bedroom Beverly Hills home.

However, many have accused Lizzo of hopping on the Ozempic train as many celebrities who struggled with their weight have been shedding pounds over the past few years thanks to the trendy semaglutide injectable for diabetes.

On Sunday, the Detroit-born, Houston-raised star and her large entourage had VIP box seats to the Super Bowl LVIII at Nevada's Allegiant Stadium, which she jokingly called 'the Usher concert.'

Lizzo also made a rare public appearance on February 4 to present the Grammy Award for best R&B song to SZA, which took place at Crypto.com Arena in Los Angeles.

On February 2, LASC Judge Mark H. Epstein denied the About Damn Time singer's motion to toss out a sexual, religious, and racial harassment lawsuit filed by three of her former backup dancers.

Lizzo will now have to face Arianna Davis, Crystal Williams, and Noelle Rodriguez at a full-blown jury trial at Santa Monica Courthouse on top of a similar lawsuit filed in September by her former tour costume designer Asha Daniels.

Meanwhile, Oscar-nominated filmmaker Sophia Nahli Allison - who claimed Lizzo was 'arrogant, self-centered, and unkind' - quit directing her Max Live in Concert documentary in 2019 after only two weeks because 'I was treated with such disrespect.'

In her only statement on the matter, The Mandalorian guest star wrote it was 'never my intention to make anyone feel uncomfortable.'

The 35-year-old rapper-singer-flautist was modeling her company's $64.95 'Smoothing Lace Plunge Bralette' and $29.95 'Smoothing Lace Thong' available in sizes XS-6X

Lizzo (born Melissa Jefferson) might have been wearing 'fake' green contact lenses for the bra-and-panty shoot, but her 'real hair' was styled in a curly updo by Bowie 'Nunie' Stoner

Make-up artist Alexx Mayo applied the four-time Grammy winner's false lashes, defined brows, pink blush, and overlined red lips

Two years ago, Lizzo co-created Yitty with Kristen Dykstra in collaboration with Kate Hudson's activewear brand Fabletics

2024 vs. 2023: If you compare footage of the 'body-normative' activist from a year ago, it's clear she's been whittling away at her famously full figure due to Pilates workouts at her $24M three-bedroom Beverly Hills home

2024 vs. 2023: However, many have accused Lizzo of hopping on the Ozempic train as many celebrities who struggled with their weight have been shedding pounds over the past few years thanks to the trendy semaglutide injectable for diabetes

On Sunday, the Detroit-born, Houston-raised star (4-R) and her large entourage had VIP box seats to the Super Bowl LVIII at Nevada's Allegiant Stadium, which she jokingly called 'the Usher concert'

Lizzo also made a rare public appearance on February 4 to present the Grammy Award for best R&B song to SZA (R), which took place at Crypto.com Arena in Los Angeles

On February 2, LASC Judge Mark H. Epstein denied the About Damn Time singer's motion to toss out a sexual, religious, and racial harassment lawsuit filed by three of her former backup dancers (pictured March 8)

Lizzo will now have to face (from L-R, pictured August 3) Arianna Davis, Crystal Williams, and Noelle Rodriguez at a full-blown jury trial at Santa Monica Courthouse on top of a similar lawsuit filed in September by her former tour costume designer Asha Daniels

In her only statement on the matter, The Mandalorian guest star wrote it was 'never my intention to make anyone feel uncomfortable'

It has also apparently taken a toll on Lizzo's personal life as she has not been pictured with her comedian boyfriend Myke Wright (R, pictured July 16) since last summer when her scandal broke

Lizzo - who still gets 15.2M monthly listeners on Spotify - has only performed once since the scandal when she accompanied the rock band Incubus on flute for their 2001 track Aqueous Transmission during their October 6th Hollywood Bowl concert

'I am very open with my sexuality and expressing myself but I cannot accept or allow people to use that openness to make me out to be something I am not,' Lizzo - who boasts 43.2M social media followers - wrote on August 3.

'I know what it feels like to be body shamed on a daily basis and would absolutely never criticize or terminate an employee because of their weight.'

It has also apparently taken a toll on the Emmy-winning producer's personal life as she has not been pictured with her comedian boyfriend Myke Wright since last summer when her scandal broke.

Lizzo - who still gets 15.2M monthly listeners on Spotify - has only performed once since the scandal when she accompanied the rock band Incubus on flute for their 2001 track Aqueous Transmission during their October 6th Hollywood Bowl concert.