Opponents argue officers should be spend more time fighting crime amid an increase in theft and highly publicized attacks by migrants

The New York City Police Department is facing opposition over its extracurricular dance crew, with critics demanding officers focus more on combatting crime and less on their dance moves.

Founded in 2022, the team was intended to serve as a place for officers to unwind after their shifts. The dancers practice two to three times a week, performing at city schools, galas and other events.

President Autumn-Rain Martinez described dance rehearsal as 'a place to release mental stress' during a recent appearance on PIX 11.

'We have to have a space to decompress,' she explained.

The team's very public promotion comes as New Yorkers voice concerns about rising crime and strained resources amid the ongoing migrant crisis.

'This will scare the beejeezes (sic) out of any criminal in NYC,' said one critic, offering up some sarcastic criticism of their recent performance on X, formerly Twitter.

Members of the New York City Police Department's dance team appeared on a local television station Thursday

President Autumn-Rain Martinez (front) described the club as 'a space to decompress'

However, the team quickly drew criticism online as netizens urged them to spend more time cracking down on crime

New Yorkers themselves had plenty to add to the conversation. 'Instead of stopping crime, watch us do the Macarena instead!' a Brooklyn resident wrote.

'Can’t wait for them (to) arrive on the scene and lighten the mood during a brutal homicide case,' a Jets fan snarked.

Yet another poster commented on the dance troop, saying: 'Well, we now know why all the criminals are able to evade arrest in NYC.'

Others were quick to jab fingers at what they view as police action in the city.

'One Daniel Penny is worth more than 500 of these cop dancers when it comes to keeping New York residents safe. I’m not exaggerating,' wrote one man, referencing the man charged with fatally choking Jordan Neely on the subway.

'In the meantime crime is at an all time high,' a fellow X user posted.

'Can't wait for them (to arrive) on the scene and lighten the mood during a brutal homicide case,' one local quipped

The NYPD's very public promotion of its dance crew drew heated criticism from X, formerly Twitter users

One netizen remarked: 'We now know why all the criminals are able to evade arrest in NYC'

The officers themselves are acutely aware of the disapproval. 'I'm just answering 911 jobs all day, all day, all day out of roll call until it's time to go home,' Team Vice President Lauren Pagan said.

'Music is amazing. And when I get to sit here and just listen even if it's the same song over and over, it's a nice place to be. Everybody here loves to dance. They love being here.'

Martinez said the club was designed to provide officers with a place to 'express themselves creatively.'

'We have a dance team because the mental health kind of takes a toll while doing this job,' she explained.

The dance troop's recent appearance on local media comes as highly-publicized instances of migrant crime have drawn attention and theft continues to rage.

In one of the most viral incidents of the past month, three NYPD officers were pummeled by a group of migrant men in Times Square and left with minor injuries.

Five of the asylum seekers charged with assault were previously allowed free without bail by a Manhattan judge.

In total, eight people have now been charged in connection to the incident.

Three NYPD officers were pummeled by a group of migrant men in Times Square and left with minor injuries last month

According to the NYPD, the migrants then started to attack the officers, kicking them in the head and body while the two officers tried to pin down one of the other men, tearing off his sweatshirt

The violence was sparked after a fight broke out between a suspect in a yellow sweatshirt and the police officers.

According to the NYPD, the migrants then started to attack the officers, kicking them in the head and body while the two officers tried to pin down one of the other men, tearing off his sweatshirt.

The attackers then made an escape east on 42nd Street toward 7th Avenue.

Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg identified 12 suspects in total and his office presented evidence to a grand jury on Tuesday.

Police have not released the identities of four other suspects in the attack against the NYPD officers.

On February 2, Bragg defended the decision to initially release them.

'While the video is shocking and disturbing, in order to secure convictions in the court of law, it is essential that we conclusively identify each defendant,' he said.

'In Manhattan, we don't tolerate or accept assaults on police officers. I watched the tape this week. Despicable behavior. It sickened me and outraged me.'

In another case, a 15-year-old Venezuelan migrant opened fire at a sneaker store during an attempted shoplifting.

He was arrested and charged as an adult after the bullet struck a Brazilian tourist and he continued to shoot at police while fleeing.

More than 160,000 migrants have landed in the city since the spring of 2022.

That number is only rising as Texas Governor Greg Abbot continues to bus people up north in retaliation of the federal government's border policy.

Appearing on 'Good Day New York' in January, Mayor Eric Adams estimated between 2,500 and 4,000 new arrivals each week.

Mayor Eric Adams, a former police officer himself, drew criticism for remarks comparing the Big Apple to L.A.'s Skid Row, a homeless area plagued by sexual assault and drug-related crime

More than 160,000 migrants have arrived in the city since the spring of 2022 and the crisis is only deepening as they continue to be bussed from Texas where record numbers are pouring over the border.

Adams confessed to Fox 5's Rosanna Scotto that, 'We're getting close to anywhere from 2,500 to peaking at 4,000 a week.'

The NYPD touted decreases across several major crime indexes in January.

Murder fell by 25 percent; rape by 24.4 percent; burglary by 19.8 percent; grand larceny auto by 3.8 percent; and felony assault by 1.5 percent.

In addition, arrests for all major crimes citywide increased 5.7 percent year over year.

But statistics for other types of theft-related crime saw an increase - robbery rose 5.4 percent while grand larceny saw a 0.4 percent uptick last month.

The department attributed the increase to 'organized pickpocket teams' and so-called 'lush workers' targeting drunk or sleeping victims in the subway.

Mayor Eric Adams, a former police officer himself, drew criticism for remarks comparing the Big Apple to L.A.'s Skid Row, one of the most condensed populations of homeless people in the country - and an area plagued by sexual assault and drug offenses.

During a discussion about year-end crime statistics at NYPD headquarters last month, Adams brandished photos of the embattled area, saying: 'You don't see this in New York.'