Boris Becker's ex Angela Ermakova partied with their model daughter Anna on Friday, days after his reported engagement to girlfriend Lilian de Carvalho Monteiro.

The mother-daughter duo cut glamorous figures at the Berlinale Palast for the 74th Berlin Film Festival.

Russian model Angela, 56, put on a leggy display in a black sheer minidress with sparkly embellishments.

Anna, 23, who is hoping to make a new career as a singer, slipped into a strapless silver dress complete with a daring thigh high slit and chiffon skirt for the event.

The model, who bears a striking resemblance to her sports star father, was raised by her mother after being conceived with the tennis ace at the Mayfair branch of Japanese restaurant chain Nobu, allegedly in the broom cupboard.

Boris Becker 's ex Angela Ermakova partied with their model daughter Anna on Friday, days after his reported engagement to girlfriend Lilian de Carvalho Monteiro

Anna, 23, who is hoping to make a new career as a singer, slipped into a strapless silver dress with a daring thigh high slit and chiffon skirt for the event

The outing comes after reports Boris, 56, is to his girlfriend Lilian, 33, after a 'secret proposal'

The pair appeared in high spirits as they posed for cameras at the event.

The outing comes after reports Boris, 56, is to his girlfriend Lilian, 33, after a 'secret proposal'.

German newspaper Bild reports the retired tennis player will be getting married for the third time.

Girlfriend Lilian, a political risk manager from the African island of Sao Tome and Principe, has been with Boris for several years.

They moved to Milan together on his release from prison where he served eight months of his two-and-a-half year sentence for insolvency crimes.

German magazine Bunte reported Boris as saying on his 2022 release: 'Because of her love, I survived.

'Yes, she is the great love of my life. And I hope I always stay with her.'

The wedding is expected to be within the year.

The disgraced tennis champ reportedly proposed to Lilian at Milan's Cathedral back in 2021 - but any hope of a fairytale wedding was cut short by the impending prison sentence.

The model, who bears a striking resemblance to her sports star father, teamed the look with a silver heels

The mother-daughter duo cut glamorous figures at the Berlinale Palast for the 74th Berlin Film Festival

The pair appeared in high spirits as they posed for cameras at the event

Anna wore some dramatic eyelashes and had inherited her father's red hair and striking features

The model posed with Isabel Edvardsson and Massimo Sinat at the event

His marriage first wife, Barbara Becker lasted eight years after it was revealed he had fathered Anna (pictured in 1998)

He broke up with wife Lilly Becker (pictured in 2018) in 2018 after nine years together

She was a constant presence by his side while attending court hearings and even blew him a goodbye kiss when he was jailed last year and blasted by a judge for showing no remorse.

Boris was charged with insolvency crimes in 2022 after declaring himself bankrupt and hiding assets worth £2.5m.

He hid the money by not declaring his share in a huge £1m German property as well as £700,000 cash from a loan among other assets.

This will be Becker's third marriage.

He broke up with wife Lilly Becker in 2018 after nine years together.

His marriage first wife, Barbara Becker lasted one year less.

They married in 1993 and separated in 2001, after the then tennis-player admitted to having an affair whilst she was pregnant with their second child.

Boris initially refused to acknowledge paternity of his daughter Anna before a DNA test later confirmed he was the father.

The former tennis player has said that his marriage to model Barbara was destroyed after she kept bringing up the fact that he'd fathered a child after the brief encounter at Nobu.