Taylor Swift is currently performing her sold out Eras Tour to hundreds of thousands of fans in Melbourne and Sydney.

However, the global superstar, 34, won't be hosting any personal meet and greets with fans - for a very good reason.

'When Taylor is on tour, strict measures are put into place to stop her interacting with anyone outside of her bubble,' a music industry insider told Yahoo.

'They cannot risk her getting sick under any circumstances. Even those in her bubble, including dancers and managers, are restricted in what they can do and where they can go during downtime.'

They added these strict measures were necessary to minimise the chances of Swift contracting an illness, which could potentially result in cancelled shows.

Taylor Swift (pictured) is currently performing her sold out Eras Tour across Australia to hundreds of thousands of fans in Melbourne and Sydney. However, the global superstar, 34, won't be having any personal meet and greets with fans - for a very surprising reason

'Going on a world tour may sound exciting, but the reality of it is each day just consists of going from a hotel room to the venue and repeat.'

Swift previously held personal meet and greets with fans during her prior Australian tour in 2018, but these have reportedly been scrapped due to Covid.

While she may not be meeting may of her Aussie fans, the songstress shared a sweet message to them after performing three sold out concerts as part of her Eras Tour at the Melbourne Cricket Ground over the weekend.

'When Taylor is on tour, strict measures are put into place to stop her interacting with anyone outside of her bubble,' a music industry insider told Yahoo. They added these strict measures were necessary to minimise the chances of Swift contracting an illness

The pop star posted several photos from her Australian tour to Instagram on Monday and thanked fans for the memories.

'Melbourne, what do I even say to you after over 288,000 of you came and danced with us in the last 3 nights ??! That was unforgettable,' she wrote.

'You were on another LEVEL. Thank you for the memories. I'll revisit the ones from this weekend often.'

Swift also sent local fans wild by declaring, 'Melbourne, you're the love of my life' during her show on Sunday night.

She told the crowd: 'Some stadium girl math for you … 96,000 people the first night, 96,000 people the second night. 96,000 people tonight.'

'Those are all the biggest shows I've ever played on a tour and you did it three times,' she added.

Swift will hit Sydney this weekend, with the pop star set to perform at four shows from Friday, February 23 to Monday February 26.