Emily Blunt showcased her glamorous sense of style as she stepped out to the Charles Finch and Chanel pre-BAFTAs dinner party at the Hertford Street Club in London on Saturday.

Actress Emily, 40, who is nominated for the Supporting Actress prize for her role as Katherine Oppenheimer in Christopher Nolan's Oppenheimer, at this year's 77th British Academy Film Awards, wore a lavender off-the-shoulder satin dress for the occasion.

The British star's garment featured ruched detail and was gathered to one side, with a length of material reaching down to the ground beside her.

She wore a pair of open-toed heels for the evening and added carried a rose gold clutch purse with her.

The screen star was joined by singer Lily Allen who looked chic in a black and white ensemble while Emma Mackey wore an edgy black leather dress.

(L-R) Emily Blunt, Lily Allen and Emma Mackey led the glamour at the Charles Finch and Chanel pre-BAFTAs dinner party at the Hertford Street Club in London on Saturday

Pop star Lily, 38, opted for a white jacket with black lapels, with the entertainer going topless underneath.

She wore a pair of loose-fitting black trousers and carried a material clutch purse i the same colour to match.

The Smile hitmaker wore lashings of make-up and opted for some glitzy silver pendulum earrings to complete her look.

Emma, 28, showed off her edgy style credentials in her black mini dress which finished high above her knee.

The sleeveless garment featured a low-cut neckline and she wore a pair of black leather high-heeled boots.

Margot Robbie cut a glamorous figure as she arrived at the bash in a glitzy mini dress.

The Australian actress, 33, who is nominated for the Leading Actress award for her performance as Barbie in the film of the same name, wore a sequinned black dress.

Her garment featured a square, low-cut neckline with white criss-cross detail across the top.

Actress Emily, 40, who is nominated for the Supporting Actress prize for her role as Katherine Oppenheimer in Oppenheimer, at this year's BAFTAs, wore a lavender off-the-shoulder dress

The British star's garment featured ruched detail and was gathered to one side, with a length of material reaching down to the ground beside her

She wore a pair of open-toed heels for the evening and added carried a rose gold clutch purse with her as she posed with as she posed with fashion designer Tom Ford

Tom looked dapper in a black three-piece suit and matching tie as he arrived at the event with Emily, while sheltering from the rain under an umbrella

Pop star Lily Allen, 38, opted for a white jacket with black lapels, with the entertainer going topless underneath

She wore a pair of loose-fitting black trousers and carried a material clutch purse i the same colour to match

The Smile hitmaker wore lashings of make-up and opted for some glitzy silver pendulum earrings to complete her look

Emma Mackey, 28, showed off her edgy style credentials in her black mini dress which finished high above her knee.

She wore a pair of black heels and carried a jacket over her arm as she made her way into the venue.

The 77th British Academy Film Awards is set to air on Sunday, with a host of big names up for prizes.

Oppenheimer has received an impressive 13 nominations while Barbie is also up for numerous gongs.

Saltburn has also been named in various categories, with actor Barry Keoghan up for Best Actor, competing with fellow Irishman Cillian Murphy, for his role in Oppenheimer.

Former Doctor Who star David Tennant is set to helm the ceremony, while a number of big name stars have been enlisted to present awards.

Oppenheimer looks set to sweep the board at the 2024 EE BAFTA Film Awards after receiving 13 nominations.

Christopher Nolan's epic biopic about atomic bomb creator J Robert Oppenheimer dominated the main categories when nominations were announced on Thursday, with nods for Best Film and for Nolan in Best Director.

In comparison, Oppenheimer's box office rival Barbie received just five nominations and was notably snubbed in the Best Film category.

Margot Robbie cut a glamorous figure as she arrived at the bash in a glitzy mini dress

The Australian actress, 33, who is nominated for the Leading Actress award for her performance as Barbie in the film of the same name, wore a sequinned black dress

Isla Fisher looked chic in a flowing floral print dress as she arrived at the bash

She wore a pair of open-toed heels and carried her cream coat with her over her shoulder

Elizabeth McGovern wore a black jacket and a matching skirt for the evening

She wore a cream waistcoat and donned a satin shirt underneath as she posed at the star-studded event

Regé-Jean Page cut a dapper figure in a white suit which he teamed with a black suit and a pair of matching shoes

Actor Aaron Taylor-Johnson wore an all-black outfit as he posed with his director wife Sam on arrival

James Norton looked smart in a black shirt and matching trousers which he teamed with a pair of smart shoes in the same colour

The actor posed casually with his hands in the pockets of his black jacket at the bash

Cillian Murphy, 47, received his first ever BAFTA nomination for his portrayal of titular character Oppenheimer and will go head-to-head with fellow Irishman Barry Keoghan, 31, for Saltburn in the Best Actor category.

They will battle it out with Bradley Cooper for Maestro, Colman Domingo for Rustin, Paul Giamatti for The Holdovers and Teo Yoo for Past Lives.

Cilian's co-stars Emily Blunt and Robert Downey Jr are also nominated in the Supporting categories.

Oppenheimer, which was a box office juggernaut when it was released in cinemas last year on the same day as Barbie - sparking the Barbenheimer phenomenon - will compete for Best Film against Yorgos Lanthimos's gothic fairytale Poor Things, which scored 11 nods and is the second most nominated film this year.

Also in the running is French courtroom drama Anatomy Of A Fall, Martin Scorsese's western crime thriller Killers Of The Flower Moon and The Holdovers, about a cranky prep school teacher forced to remain on campus over the holidays with a troubled student.

Oppenheimer could see Nolan pick up his first ever Director BAFTA.

He faces competition from All Of Us Strangers director Andrew Haigh, Anatomy Of A Fall's Justine Triet, The Holdovers' Alexander Payne, Maestro's Cooper and Jonathan Glazer for The Zone Of Interest.

Notably absent from the category is Barbie's director Greta Gerwig, while the movie - which was the highest-grossing film of 2023 - was also snubbed for Best Film.

Claudia Winkleman wore a black velvet jacket over a top in the same colour and some matching leggings

The Traitors host appeared in good spirits, smiling as she posed on arrival at the party

Actress Minnie Driver wore a black dress which featured sheer sleeves with a floral pattern

Actress Ellie Bamber looked chic in a black semi-sheer dress as she posed on arrival

Under the new rules, the director longlist had equal numbers of male and female filmmakers, but there is only one woman among the six best-director nominees, Triet.

Gerwig is, however, recognised in the Original Screenplay category alongside her husband and co-writer Noah Baumbach.

Barbie star Margot Robbie is up for Best Actress and will compete in a category that notably excludes Killers of the Flower Moon's Lily Gladstone, despite her awards season success so far. The Scorsese epic received nine nods in total.

The remaining Best Actress nominees are against Poor Things' Emma Stone, Maestro's Carey Mulligan, Anatomy Of A Fall's Sandra Huller, The Colour Purple's Fantasia Barrino and Rye Lane's Vivian Oparah.

German actress Huller is also nominated in a second category, and will battle it out for Supporting Actress for The Zone Of Interest, alongside Oppenheimer's Blunt, Saltburn's Rosamund Pike, The Holdovers' Da'Vine Joy Randolph, The Colour Purple's Danielle Brooks and All Of Us Strangers' Claire Foy.

Oppenheimer's Downey Jr, will be hoping to continue his winning streak after being nominated in the Supporting Actor category. He has already won a Golden Globe and a Critics Choice award for his performance as Lewis Strauss, the chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission.

Yet he faces stiff competition from first-time BAFTA nominee Jacob Elordi for Saltburn, Robert De Niro for Killers Of The Flower Moon, Ryan Gosling for Barbie, Paul Mescal for All Of Us Strangers and Dominic Sessa for The Holdovers.

Barbie has been nominated for Original Screenplay and faces competition from Anatomy of a Fall, The Holdovers, Maestro and Past Lives.

Socialite and actress Poppy Delevingne wore a pink and white striped mini dress which she teamed with some glittered silver heels

She carried a small white Chanel handbag with her for the evening

Gwendoline Christie looked chic in a white jacket with black pockets and a black skirt

Actress Caitriona Balfe wore a shimmering sequinned copper and black jumpsuit while she carried a black clutch with her

In the Adapted Screenplay category, All of Us Strangers, American Fiction, Oppenheimer, Poor Things and The Zone of Interest go up against each other.

The contenders for Outstanding British Film are All Of Us Strangers, How To Have Sex, Napoleon, The Old Oak, Poor Things, Rye Lane, Saltburn, Scrapper, Wonka and The Zone Of Interest.

In the Animated Film category, Chicken Run: Dawn of the Nugget is competing against The Boy and the Heron, Elemental and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse.

The EE BAFTA Rising Star Award is the one award on the night that will be voted for by the public, with previous winners including James McAvoy, Tom Hardy, Daniel Kaluuya, Letitia Wright and Tom Holland.

This year sees Phoebe Dynevor, Ayo Edebiri, Jacob Elordi, Mia Mckenna-Bruce and Sophie Wilde compete for the honour.

It was previously announced that the BAFTA Fellowship, the film academy's highest honour, will be presented to actress Samantha Morton.

Cillian Murphy, Claire Foy and Barry Keoghan are among the BAFTA nominees who will attend the star-studded ceremony on Sunday.

Irish stars Cillian and Barry are both nominated in the Best Actor category for their turns in Oppenheimer and Saltburn respectively.

Christopher Nolan's Oppenheimer leads this year's BAFTA nominations with 13 nods, including a first time nomination for star Cillian Murphy, who will go head-to-head for Best Actor with fellow Irishman Barry Keoghan, 31, (right) for Saltburn

Oppenheimer's box office rival Barbie received just five nominations and was notably snubbed in the Best Film category

All of Us Strangers received six nominations, including Outstanding British Film and Supporting Actor for Paul Mescal (right)

Cillian plays J Robert Oppenheimer, the theoretical physicist described as the father of the atomic bomb, in Christopher Nolan's epic biopic, while Barry plays a student at Oxford who becomes enthralled by a wealthier classmate and pays a visit to his sprawling estate in Emerald Fennell's viral black comedy.

The Crown star Claire is nominated for the Best Supporting Actress prize for her performance in All Of Us Strangers, Andrew Haigh's searing drama about grief and loneliness.

Oppenheimer director Christopher Nolan will also attend the ceremony, which will feature performances by Sophie Ellis-Bextor and Hannah Waddingham.

It was previously announced that Sophie would perform her 2001 hit Murder On The Dancefloor, which experienced a surge in popularity after it featured in the closing moments of Saltburn. Ted Lasso star Hannah will also give a live musical performance, but details have not been shared.