Robert Irwin and Rorie Buckley have wiped all traces of their relationship from each other's social media after announcing their shock break-up.

The pair, who dated for almost two years, made a joint statement about their split in a post shared to Rorie's Instagram page on Saturday.

Since sharing the devastating news, Robert has seemingly wiped all traces of Rorie from his Instagram as his grid now only shows posts featuring himself and his family.

Meanwhile, Rorie has changed her profile from public to private and disabled her 'comments' function.

However, the exes still appear to be following each other on the social media platform after saying they wished each other 'all the very best'.

Robert Irwin and Rorie Buckley have wiped all traces of their relationship from each other's social media only hoours after they announced they were splitting. (Pictured)

Confirming their split earlier on Saturday, they said in a joint statement that they had 'decided to go their separate ways' but 'appreciated all the time spent together'.

The statement read: 'We wanted to share that we have decided to go our separate ways but profoundly appreciate all the time spent together and wish one another all the very best into the future.

'We wish to express the gratitude and respect we have for one another as we continue our journeys on different paths.

'We won't be commenting further on this, and really appreciate your respect and privacy at this time.'

Since sharing the news of their split, Robert has seemingly wiped all traces of Rorie from his Instagram as his grid now only shows posts featuring himself

Meanwhile, Rorie has changed her profile from public to private and disabled her 'comments' function. Pictured: Rorie's Instagram page moments before she made it private

Robert, 20, and Rorie, 19, were believed to have been dating since November 2022, but went Instagram official almost a year later in August 2023.

Prior to that, the pair had made their red carpet debut at the Mission: Impossible – Dead Reckoning Part One premiere in Sydney.

The duo were last seen together in January looking smitten as they jetted out of Melbourne following their appearance at the Australian Open.

At the time, Robert couldn't take his eyes off his girlfriend as the pair waited in the terminal.

Rorie reportedly completed an Irwin-approved 'wildlife warrior boot camp' before she and Robert became an official couple.

In December, Woman's Day claimed that Rorie had to win over the family by having a willingness to get out into nature.

Confirming their split earlier on Saturday, they said in a joint statement that they had 'decided to go their separate ways' but 'appreciated all the time spent together'

The couple went on crocodile research trip together where they uncovered 'critical data' for the Wildlife Warriors' Worldwide foundation.

Robert's mother Terri - who shares her kids with her late husband Steve - and sister Bindi, 25, had been impressed by Rorie's dedication to Australian wildlife.

An insider claimed Rorie was 'determined to not let Robert down and show him - and his mum and sister - that she's not just some puff piece. And she blew them away'.

The pair were in a long-distance relationship, as Robert is based at Australia Zoo in Queensland while Rorie lives in Perth.

The pair were in a long-distance relationship, with Robert based at Australia Zoo in Queensland while Rorie lives in Perth

Robert and Rorie, who is the niece of legendary Australian actor Heath Ledger, both grew up in the public eye after suffering the devastating loss of a family member.

Heath was at the top of his Hollywood career when he was tragically found dead in January 2008 following an accidental prescription drug overdose.

Robert's father Steve Irwin, known to the world as the 'Crocodile Hunter', died aged 44 on September 4, 2006, after being pierced in the chest by a stingray.