The boss of a community bank is bucking the digital trend by keeping cash alive for his customers and ensuring that staff are on hand to speak to them.

Ralph Steele, chairman and founding director of Bendigo Bank in Galston in Sydney's north west, said he was led by what his customers' wanted.

'The bottom line to all this is we're running out bank to service our customers,' he told 2GB's Ben Fordham.

'We're not there telling our customers how we're going to serve them. If they come in with cash, we take cash. If they come in looking for cash we give them cash.

'If they come in looking for the manager, he's there.'

Ralph Steele (pictured, third from right), chairman and founding director of Bendigo Bank in Galston in Sydney's north west, said he was led by what his customers' wanted

The Bendigo Bank in Galston (pictured) has given over $3million back into the community by sponsoring local schools, sports clubs, disability support, aged care and also a Careflight helicopter

The bank, which has been serving the local community for over 20 years, is doing so well it is currently hiring for two teller jobs.

'It's an incredible little business actually,' Mr Steele said.

'We've got about 280 shareholders who own the bank and they are doing really well out of it. Last year we gave 17 cents per dollar share fully franked divided.'

Mr Steele's customer-first approach is in direct contrast to bigger banks who are all moving towards digital-only payments and shuttering many of their branches.

Many of the major banks will no longer allow customers to withdraw cash from many branches.

'This has been going on for so long,' Mr Steele said.

The community bank program is based on a 'profit-with-purpose' model, whereby profits are regularly given back to the local community (pictured: Mr Steele and the bank's contribution to the community over the years)

'In our area there are a few retirement homes and how can we force people in retirement homes to go to a computer that they don't understand. Isn't that going to be just an opening for scams?'

The Bendigo Bank in Galston has given over $3million back into the community by sponsoring local schools, sports clubs, disability support, aged care and also a Careflight helicopter.

It was founded in March 2002 after a passer-by noticed the then NAB bank had a sign on its door reading, 'we are re-locating for your convenience'.

Mr Steele said it was the 'happiest bank in NSW'.

The community bank program is based on a 'profit-with-purpose' model, whereby profits are regularly given back to the local community.

Since 1998, Bendigo Community Banks have reportedly given back more than $272 million to local communities.