Dani Alves is reportedly 'depressed' in prison as he waits for the verdict of his alleged rape trial.

The Brians 2 prison is reportedly taking 'extreme measures' to look after Alves, a former Barcelona and Brazil player, such is his mental decline.

Alves' sexual assault trial got underway in Barcelona earlier this month as a woman claimed she was raped by him.

State prosecutors have said they wanted him jailed for nine years if convicted of raping a 23-year-old woman in a toilet at Barcelona's upmarket Sutton nightclub on December 30, 2022.

However, Fiesta, via SPORT, reports that an ex-cellmate of Alves called 'Coutinho' has spoken out about the former defender's mental spiral.

Dani Alves is reportedly 'depressed' in prison as he awaits the verdict of his alleged rape trial

Former Barcelona star Alves is accused of raping a woman in a club in the Spanish city in 2022

Your browser does not support iframes.

'As a result of the trial, he has been hit by the slump. He’s kind of depressed, crestfallen. Educators and officials are supporting him,' 'Coutinho' said.

For avoidance of doubt, it is worth clarifying that 'Coutinho' is not to be confused with Alves' former Brazil team-mate Philippe Coutinho.

Court proceedings in Alves' trial took place from February 5 to February 7.

Alves has maintained that he is innocent of the charges levelled against him.

His defence asked for an acquittal, or if found guilty a one-year sentence plus £42,000 (€50,000) compensation for the victim.

The 40-year-old secured permission to take the stand on the last day after the 28 witnesses, including his female accuser and his model wife Joana Sanz, testified.

He has insisted he had consensual sex with the woman who has accused him of forcing himself on her.

After seeing bail refused last June, Alves told Cuatro programme 'En Boca de todos': 'It will be proven that I am not guilty and it was a consensual relationship. It would never cross my mind to impose a sexual act on anyone.'

This is the exclusive Sutton nightclub, where Alves is accused of raping a 23-year-old woman

Alves was playing for the Mexican club UNAM prior to his arrest. They terminated his contract

On the final day of his trial, Alves told the court that the sex between him and his accuser had been consensual.

He said: 'I am not that type of man; I am not a violent man.'

The alleged victim told state prosecutors that she danced with Alves and willingly entered the bathroom, but said that later when she wanted to leave he would not let her.

She said he slapped her, insulted her and forced her to have sexual relations against her will.

'She never told me to stop. We were both enjoying ourselves,' Alves said, while repeating that the woman never asked to leave or made any indication that she did not want to have sexual relations with him.

He also denied having slapped or insulted her.

The former Barcelona, Juventus and Paris Saint-Germain defender is being held at Brians 2

This is the first high-profile sex crime trial since Spain overhauled its legislation in 2022 to make consent, or the lack thereof, central to defining a sex crime in response to an upswell of protests after a gang-rape case during the San Fermin bull-running festival in Pamplona in 2016.

The legislation popularly known as the 'only yes means yes' law defines consent as an explicit expression of a person's will, making it clear that silence or passivity do not equal consent.