An Antiques Roadshow guest was shocked to discover the value of watch which they had found it broken in a junk shop.

The latest episode saw members of the public fetching their possessions to Powis Castle in Welshpool, with one man hoping to learn more about the timepiece.

He explained to expert Alistair Chandler how he'd paid £40 for a box of odds ends only to later discover the watch hidden at the bottom.

Saying: 'There were all sorts of bits in [the box] and there were some tools that I wanted, but in the bottom there was some dead watches, and amongst it was that one.

Alistair instantly gushed over the item and told the guest how he had 'come across a jewel'.

An Antiques Roadshow guest was shocked to discover the value of watch which they had found it broken in a junk shop

The latest episode saw members of the public fetching their prized possessions to Powis Castle in Welshpool, with one man hoping to learn more about a vintage timepiece

He then went on to say how the watch was actually made by designer brand Jaeger-Lecoultre, before also pointing out the name of luxury London jeweller Asprey on the dial.

Alistair gushed: 'It really does ooze style' before revealing it had been made in the 1930s and was at the 'forefront of design' for the time.

Moving on to the valuation he concluded: 'I think £40 pound you paid, in today's market and interest in watches Jaeger and given the Asprey retailing name,'.

'I think someone would easily pay £1,500 to £2,000 for this watch'.

The man looked gobsmacked and let out a gasp before laughing: 'That wasn't a bad day of shopping'.

Jaeger-LeCoultre is a Swiss luxury watch and clock manufacturer founded by Antoine LeCoultre in 1833 and is known for creating some of the world's most expensive watches.

It comes after Antiques Roadshow expert Susan Rumfitt left one guest speechless after valuing her family heirloom at a staggering amount.

The woman brought in a stunning colourful statement necklace which had been in her family for generations.

He explained to expert Alistair Chandler (pictured) how he'd paid £40 for a box of odds ends only to later discover the watch hidden at the bottom

Alistair gushed: 'It really does ooze style' before revealing it had been made in the 1930s and was at the 'forefront of design' for the time.

Before leaving the man speechless by concluding: 'I think someone would easily pay £1,500 to £2,000 for this watch'

The expert, who specialises in buying and selling high-end jewellery, said: 'Well, this is definitely a necklace for every outfit that you own in your wardrobe. You would be able to wear it with anything.'

She asked: 'How did get this into your collection?'

The woman revealed it had belonged to her great aunt and has since been passed down through her family from generation to generation.

Susan said: 'This is absolutely beautiful, isn't it? We have got an abundance of stones going throughout the necklace.'

She then individually named the stones that sat on the gold chain, she said: 'Turquoise, Amethyst, Peridot, and Citrine.'

It comes after Antiques Roadshow expert Susan Rumfitt left one guest speechless after valuing her family heirloom at a staggering amount

The woman brought in a stunning colourful statement necklace which had been in her family for generations

Gushing over the 'beautiful' design, the presenter added: 'It's something for everybody really, it is just superb.'

After taking a closer look and inspecting the piece of jewellery, Susan revealed she believed it dated back to the late 19th century - which would mean the necklace has been passed down for hundreds of years.

Before revealing the price, the presenter curiously asked the guest if she had ever worn the precious 20 stone piece.

She confirmed she had only taken it out once.

Susan went on to reveal the eye-watering valuation of the necklace, which caused fans gathered around to gasp.

She said: 'If you did decide to sell it and it went into auction, we would be looking to put a rough estimate between £5,000 and £7,000 on it.'

Antiques Roadshow is available to watch on BBC iPlayer.