The man who confronted the Prime Minister over his injuries from a Covid vaccine claimed he spoke out because he didn't want to be a 'died suddenly' statistic.

John Watt, from Glasgow, received three Covid jabs in 2021 — the initial two doses followed by a booster.

However, the 38-year-old alleges his world 'crumbled' after the third that November, when his health deteriorated and he was diagnosed with heart problems.

Covid vaccines have been monitored by world-renowned experts and Government agencies, who say that it is safe and side effects are very rare. Bogus claims rife on social media say thousands have been killed by the jabs, despite evidence proving otherwise.

Vaccines played a vital role in building the wall of immunity that allowed the UK to turn a corner in the pandemic, leaving lockdowns and restrictions behind.

He appeared on a 'people's forum' hosted by GB News on Monday, during which Mr Watt told Mr Sunak to 'look at the pain, the trauma and regret that I have in my eyes'

Mr Sunak pointed to the vaccine compensation scheme, which provides payouts for those who have been harmed by the jabs

Mr Watt, an ex-joiner and carpenter, who says he is still suffering from side effects including difficulties walking, this week confronted Rishi Sunak and demanded that he 'do the right thing' and speed up payments for those injured by the jab.

Quizzed about the interaction on GB News, Mr Watt claimed he spoke out about his experience 'because I'm not going to be a "died suddenly" statistic'.

Before being vaccinated, Mr Watt said he was 'fit and healthy' and would regularly do boxing, CrossFit and weight training to keep himself in shape.

A GoFundMe page about Mr Watt's condition, which has so far raised £17,000, states he suffered dizziness, fatigue, raised heart rate and nausea, which saw him lose 15kg (33lbs) in three weeks.

His partner Kerri said he was unable to keep working and NHS doctors 'had no clue what was wrong with him', leaving him to 'rot away at home'.

The full list of vaccines that Government will pay financial support for, if you're left 60 per cent disabled COVID-19

diphtheria

haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib)

human papillomavirus

influenza, except for influenza caused by a pandemic influenza virus

measles

meningitis B

meningitis C

meningitis W

mumps

pandemic influenza A (H1N1) 2009 (swine flu) - up to 31 August 2010

pertussis (whooping cough)

pneumococcal infection

poliomyelitis

rotavirus

rubella

smallpox - up to 1 August 1971

tetanus

tuberculosis You may have had a combined vaccination against a number of the diseases listed. For example, you might have been vaccinated against DTP (diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis) or MMR (measles, mumps and rubella). You may also be able to get a payment if you're severely disabled because either: your mother was vaccinated against one of the diseases in the list while she was pregnant

you've been in close physical contact with someone who's had an oral vaccine against poliomyelitis Source: Gov.uk Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/health/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Private scans saw Mr Watt diagnosed with postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (PoTS), when the heart rate increases very quickly when getting up from sitting or lying down, as well as vaccine-induced myocarditis, a rare side effect of Covid vaccination that causes inflammation of the heart.

He appeared on a 'people's forum' hosted by GB News on Monday, during which Mr Watt told Mr Sunak to 'look at the pain, the trauma and regret that I have in my eyes'.

Mr Watt, who set up a support group for people affected by the vaccine in Scotland, said people injured by the vaccine, including those who have lost limbs and been left with heart conditions, have 'been left with no help at all'.

He said: 'Why are the people who are in charge who told us all to do the right thing, have [left] me and the tens of thousands of people in this country to rot.

'Rishi Sunak look me in the eye — when are you going to start to do the right thing?

'The vaccine damage payments scheme is not fit for purpose. In Scotland right now there are over 30,000 people who have had an adverse reaction to that vaccine.

'It's time for you to start doing the right thing Mr Rishi Sunak.'

Mr Sunak pointed to the vaccine compensation scheme, which provides payouts for those who have been harmed by the jabs.

While the jabs deployed during the pandemic are safe for the vast majority and have saved hundreds of thousands of lives, dozens of Brits have died or been left disabled after getting an injection.

The UK's Vaccine Damage Payment Scheme, launched in 1979, is meant to reassure people that — in the extremely unlikely event something goes wrong following a jab — the state will provide them financial support.

It covers an array of vaccines recommended by the Government, including measles, mumps and rubella, as well as the Covid vaccines.

Under current rules, victims are entitled to a one-off 'all-or-nothing' sum of £120,000 from the Government.

Strict eligibility criteria means those affected must either have been killed or be left 60 per cent disabled due to a vaccine.

The extent of a person's disability is based on an assessment by a doctor and can include both physical disablement, such as the loss of a limb, or mental disablement, such as a decline in cognitive function.

However, lawyers representing those injured or bereaved by the jabs have previously warned that the scheme is 'no longer fit for purpose'.

Hundreds have had to wait more 12 months for a decision on their application, while some have been stuck in limbo for more than 18 months.

Mr Watt hit out at the compensation scheme as only a 'very small percentage' have had a pay out and most are 'no further forward than about a year ago'.

He said: 'Rishi Sunak, you've never been notified that we exist. It's not the first time, mate.

Before being vaccinated (left, and after, right), Mr Watt said he was 'fit and healthy' and would regularly do boxing, CrossFit and weight training to keep himself in shape

Private scans saw Mr Watt diagnosed with postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (PoTS), when the heart rate increases very quickly when getting up from sitting or lying down, as well as vaccine-induced myocarditis , a rare side effect of Covid vaccination that causes inflammation of the heart

Lawyers representing those injured or bereaved by the jabs said last year that the scheme was 'no longer fit for purpose'. While the scheme had received 6,399 claims as of September, over 500 people had been left waiting more than 12 months for an outcome, with 166 stuck in limbo for more than 18 months. At least 127 claims for the state-funded, financial support had been approved as of September, taking the total bill to more than £15million

'This goes to all the politicians because this is an apolitical issue. This is a message to you all, because the longer you leave it and bury your head in the sand. It's not going away.

'You want to talk about the post office scandal? This is bigger. This is a global and it's getting worse and you can't run away from it any longer.'

The Department of Health has said more than 144million Covid vaccines have been dished out in England, with the historic scheme credited for saving thousands of lives.

All vaccines used in Britain, including those that helped beat Covid, went through rigorous testing before being dished out.

Trials saw tens of thousands of people vaccinated with jabs made by AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Moderna to check their effectiveness, as well as safety.

However, these trials, like for any new medication or vaccine, will rarely pick up on extremely rare side effects, such as heart inflammation.