Meghan's luxurious reversible jacket is a new addition to her wardrobe

Meghan Markle looked stylishly cosy as she watched Prince Harry hurtle down a bobsled track in Whistler, Canada, yesterday.

The Duchess of Sussex - who has joined her husband on a multi-day trip to Canada in honor of the one-year countdown to the 2025 Invictus Games - wrapped up against the chill in a £3,000 Hermes quilted jacket, teamed with her favourite 'Valerie' skinny jeans from La Ligne, costing £135.

A new addition to her wardrobe, Meghan's luxurious reversible jacket features a pure goose down filling, ribbed funnel neckline, Clou de Selle engraved snap closures and a printed lining.

The mother-of-two added Kamik 'Sienna' boots (£100), Blenders 'Grove' sunglasses (£58) and an Aritzia 'Babaton' cashmere beanie (£43.66) - as well as lashings of Birks jewellery, totalling £9,840.

Meghan, 42, and Prince Harry, 38, have come under fire in recent days over their new Sussex.com website - in particular Meghan's coat of arms, which critics claim is a breach of their promise to the late Queen Elizabeth when they acrimoniously quit front-line royal duties.

Meghan Markle looked stylishly cosy as she watched Prince Harry hurtle down a bobsled track in Whistler, Canada

Nonetheless, the Duchess was seen beaming and taking pictures as she watched Prince Harry hurtle down a bobsled track yesterday, days after the Sussexes vowed they 'wouldn't be broken', after their royal rebrand.

She looked the part in a black Hermes puffer coat, La Ligne jeans, Kamik boots and Blenders sunglasses as she watched on with a huge smile on her face, in awe of her husband's skills.

A new addition to her wardrobe, Meghan's £3,000 jacket features a pure goose down filling, ribbed funnel neckline, Clou de Selle engraved snap closures and a printed lining.

Meghan wrapped up against the chill in a £3,000 Hermes quilted jacket, teamed with her favourite 'Valerie' skinny jeans from La Ligne, costing £135

The royal expertly accessorised with a pair of £135 black skinny jeans by La Ligne, which she debuted last year, £100 Kamik 'Sienna' boots and £58 Blenders 'Grove' sunglasses. She added plenty of jewellery including three diamond rings from Birks costing almost £10,000 - plus her £140,000 engagement ring.

The mother-of-two added a cashmere beanie (£43.66) and scarf (£38.15) by Aritzia.

Meghan's winter chic appearance comes as the couple spend time in British Columbia for Invictus Games events amid an ongoing row over their Sussex.com website rebrand.

In particular, their decision to change their children Archie and Lilibet's surnames to Sussex has raised eyebrows among royal watchers.

Meghan, 42, watched on with a huge smile on her face, in awe of her husband's skills

When asked by an onlooker whether she planned to join her husband in trying out the daring sport, Meghan laughingly yelled back, 'I can't!'

Meghan Markle was seen beaming and taking pictures as she watched Prince Harry

The 38-year-old Duke of Sussex achieved an impressive top speed of 61 miles-per-hour during his daring adventure - a feat that left even his wife Meghan, 42, voicing her awe

The pair have also been followed closely by a camera crew from Good Morning America, who are thought to be working on a segment all about the pair's Invictus Games countdown

Meghan was wrapped up in a £3,000 Hermes padded jacket and a cashmere hat and scarf

The moves have sparked a fresh round of criticism of the Duke and Duchess and renewed calls for the duo to have their titles removed. But a representative told the Mirror that the couple 'will not be broken'.

But Prince Harry found a thrilling way to put some distance between himself and the scandal surrounding his and Meghan Markle's Sussex family rebrand, when he enjoyed a thrill-filled ride around a skeleton bobsled track in Whistler, Canada.

The Duke of Sussex achieved an impressive top speed of 61 miles-per-hour during his daring adventure - a feat that left even his wife Meghan voicing her awe, telling fellow onlookers that she was 'impressed' with her husband's skills.

While Meghan did not take part in the bobsledding fun at the Whistler Sliding Center in British Columbia, she was able to enjoy every aspect of her husband's ride when he got off the sled - before enthusiastically re-enacting his thrill ride to his wife and Invictus volunteers after getting off.

The Duchess of Sussex - who has joined her husband on a multi-day trip to Canada in honor of the one-year countdown to the 2025 Invictus Games - also served as her husband's personal photographer, beaming with pride as she held up her phone to snap images and clips as he whizzed to the end of the track.

But Meghan, who accessorised her phone with a £198.68 case from Bottega Veneta, was not the only videographer on hand to capture every moment of the Duke's whistle-top trip around the bobsled track.

As well as a team of photographers and onlookers who have captured the couple's every move, they have also been followed closely by a camera crew from Good Morning America, who are thought to be working on a segment all about the pair's Invictus Games countdown.

When asked by an onlooker whether she planned to join her husband in trying out the daring sport, Meghan laughingly yelled back, 'I can't!'