The Masked Singer UK's Cricket's identity was finally revealed as they finished in third place during Saturday's grand final.

After weeks of speculation the talented singer beneath the mask turned out to be none other than Lemar Obika, 45.

The musician who competed on Fame Academy in 2002, has since gone on to release albums and also appeared in Netflix's Bridgerton spin-off Queen Charlotte as Lord Smythe-Smith.

Judges Davina McCall, Rita Ora, Jonathan Ross and Mo Gilligan, as well as fans, had put the clues together after hearing Lemar's unmistakable voice.

After removing his mask to huge cheers from the studio audience, he admitted admitted his time on the show had been even fun that he could have ever imagined.

The Masked Singer UK 's Cricket's identity was finally revealed as they finished in third place during Saturday's grand final

After weeks of speculation the talented singer beneath the mask turned out to be none other than Fame Academy's Lemar Obika, 45

The musician who competed on Fame Academy in 2002, has since gone on to release albums and also appeared in Netflix 's Bridgerton spin-off Queen Charlotte as Lord Smythe-Smith (pictured)

Saying: 'I thought it was going to be fun but it's been more fun than I could have imagined. I'm a fan of the show. Just getting to express yourself on different songs that people maybe wouldn't expect, that's been a lot of fun'

Judge Rita previously branded Lemar as 'one of the best' voices they'd ever had on the show.

Previously one clue saw him sat by a box of sports gear with the words: 'Academy team kit. Please take one helmet. Do not take two'.

With Rita saying: 'I see the academy on the box and I thought 'Fame Academy' and then I saw 'time to grow' which is the name of Lemar's double platinum album, so I am pretty sure that is Lemar.'

Olly Murs who also appeared on the show as a guest judge, said he recognised the voice as the ex Fame Academy finalist, as he sang at his friend's wedding.

He listened as Cricket performed Rhythm of the Night, and told viewers he knew exactly who was behind the green insect.

He said: 'I know that voice, he sang at my friend's wedding!'

He garnered national attention in 2002 when he appeared on the BBC's Fame Academy - a British talent competition to search for and educate new musical talents.

After removing his mask to huge cheers from the studio audience, he admitted admitted his time on the show had been even fun that he could have ever imagined (L-R) Host Joel Dommett and Lemar

Judges Davina McCall , Rita Ora , Jonathan Ross and Mo Gilligan, as well as fans, had put the clues together after hearing Lemar's unmistakable voice

Judge Rita previously branded Lemar as 'one of the best' voices they'd ever had on the show

He didn't win the show, instead he came third, yet did receive a record contract and album sales of over two million.

Lemar - who was 24 at the time and already a veteran of the live music circuit - was working as a bank clerk in his local NatWest in Tottenham, north London, when he heard about Fame Academy. He'd returned to the staff canteen where he'd left his keys, and the TV was on.

He went on to win two Brit and three Mobo music awards, and released five studio albums, three of which are certified platinum.

His most memorable tracks include party classic 50/50 and ballad If There's Any Justice.

In 2008 the popular singer became a father for the first time, when his partner Charmaine Powell gave birth to a baby girl named Nyiema Obika. They later went on to have a second child named Uriah Obika.