Hojlund is the youngest player to score in six straight Premier league games

Manchester United rode out a defiant performance from Luton Town to claim a 2-1 win at Kenilworth Road.

Rasmus Hojlund was the hero, striking twice within the first seven minutes to give United a comfortable lead.

However, Carlton Morris pulled one back for the hosts after 14 minutes and Luton went on to pepper Andre Onana's goal with 22 shots, with Ross Barkley hitting the bar with a header in the dying moments.

Hojlund and Kobbie Mainoo were the standout performers for Erik ten Hag's side but it was a far from convincing outing overall.

Luke Shaw, Harry Maguire, and Casemiro all looked off the pace as United squirmed to a fourth straight win to bolster their Champions League hopes.

Here are Mail Sport's player ratings.

Rasmus Hojlund scored for the sixth game running as his double fired Man United to victory

Your browser does not support iframes.

Manchester United (4-2-3-1)

Andre Onana - 6

Been much improved since the turn of the year and that is why he will be annoyed with how tentative he was for Carlton Morris’ goal. Perhaps fortunate to avoid a booking with how long he took over his goal-kicks in the second half.

Luke Shaw - 5

Was run ragged by Chiedozie Ogbene and won’t want to see the goal back when Carlton Morris spun off him to head in. Looked to pick up a new injury and he was taken off before half-time. Booked.

Harry Maguire - 5.5

Been one of United’s best players in recent weeks but this isn’t a display he can add to the collection. Hooked by Ten Hag at half-time after being booked for taking down Morris on edge of box at the end of the first half.

Luke Shaw was run ragged by Chiedozie Ogbene and taken off at half-time with a new injury

Harry Maguire was also substituted at the break after falling below his recent high standards and being booked

Raphael Varane - 6.5

Made a crucial block after 31 mins to deny Luton from levelling at 2-2, bailing out Maguire in the process after his mistake, and provided another reminder that United would be wise to extend his contract beyond the end of the season.

Diogo Dalot - 6

Took plenty of headlines for his assist at Villa Park and why he didn’t produce such fireworks here, there were far worse performances in a United shirt than his.

Did try to make things happen down the right with some innovative runs.

Casemiro - 5

Looked so serene in the opening stages but soon lost his way. United desperately need him to dictate the tempo but he couldn’t deal with the pace of the game here.

Was lucky not to be sent off after recklessly going through the back of Ross Barkley when already booked. Hooked at half-time.

Kobbie Mainoo - 7.5

The best of United’s midfield three. You feel lucky to watch his footwork in the flesh as he dances his way past markers.

Gareth Southgate needs to get a move on getting him into the senior England squad. Booked.

Kobbie Mainoo sent Gareth Southgate another reminder of his abilities with a composed game

Casemiro was off the pace and could have been sent off for a reckless foul on Ross Barkley

Luton player ratings Luton XI (3-4-3): Kaminski 7; Bell 5, Osho 6, Mengi 6.5; Ogbene 7, Barkley 7, Lokonga 6.5, Doughty 6.5 (Berry 82); Chong 6 (Townsend 68, 5), Morris 7; Woodrow 5 (Clark 68) Subs not used: Krul, Potts, Kabore, Burke, Mpanzu, Nelson Goals: Morris (14) Booked: Woodrow, Townsend, Osho Manager: Rob Edwards 6.5 Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sport/football/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_2 - ->

Bruno Fernandes - 6

A frustrating afternoon for the Manchester United captain in what was a frustrating team display for large parts.

His passing was off the mark in a ragged first half. Did improve in the second as United saw it out.

Marcus Rashford - 6.5

Snapped in the first half after getting a bang on the head but settled himself after avoiding a booking on that occasion.

Unlucky not to get a goal himself after a surging run through Luton’s half in the second half.

Rasmus Hojlund - 8.5

Took him 37 seconds to get his first and then by seven minutes he had his second.

Gary Neville called him the ‘real deal’ on commentary and it’s hard to argue. That’s 13 goals and counting now in all competitions.

Alejandro Garnacho - 6.5

Brilliant volley which turned into an assist for Hojlund’s second goal was a sweet strike but he should have had a goal of his own when one v one in the second half. Had head in his hands after being smothered.

Erik ten Hag was bold with his substitutions, but was it a mistake starting Luke Shaw?

Manager: Erik ten Hag - 6.5

Questions will be asked as to whether he rushed Luke Shaw back after the left back was forced off again in a first half. But he was bold in making changes at the break with a gaggle of players on a booking and his winning run continues.