Officials have confirmed that the age limit for boxers of 40 will be upheld

Manny Pacquiao's hopes of competing at the Paris Olympics have been dashed after the International Olympic Committee decided not to change its entry rules to let the 45-year-old boxing great enter the ring.

Pacquaio retired from professional boxing in 2021 but the former eight-weight world champion hoped to make a comeback at this summer's Games.

On Sunday, however, the IOC revealed it had written to Olympic officials in the Philippines to confirm that the age limit for boxers of 40 will be upheld.

The limit for Olympic boxing was changed to 40 from 34 in 2013 - a move that would have allowed Pacquaio try to compete at the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympics.

He chose not to at the time when he was also elected to be a senator in his home country.

Manny Pacquiao's hopes of competing at this summer's Paris Olympics have been dashed

The IOC is now in charge of Olympic boxing after it de-recognized the International Boxing Association governing body.

It is unclear if Pacquaio would have tried to earn a place at the Paris Olympics in one of two qualification tournaments that open later this month in Italy and in May in Thailand.

The Philippines Olympic body had talked of trying to get a so-called 'universality' entry to the Paris Summer Games.

These are effectively free passes to events given to countries that have few athletes at the Olympics and typically struggle to qualify on merit.

Pacquiao in action against Floyd 'Money' Mayweather during an incredible boxing career

However, the IOC explained Sunday that the Philippines had been too successful to benefit from the scheme.

'Universality places are not allocated to (teams) with an average of more than eight athletes in individual sports/disciplines at the last two editions of the Olympic Games,' the IOC said. 'This is the case for the Philippine Olympic Committee.'

Pacquaio ended his storied career in September 2021 at age 42 after 72 fights, winning 12 world titles at a record eight different weight divisions.

This medal bouts for this year's Games will be held in the Roland Garros tennis complex.