Zendaya commanded attention as she and her co-star Florence Pugh lead the stars attending the Dune: Part Two premiere in Leicester Square, London on Thursday.

The actress, 27, who plays the warrior Chani in the franchise, wore a piece of fashion history to the event as she donned a Thierry Mugler robot suit from his fall/winter 1995 Couture Collection.

The skintight outfit highlighted the star's jaw-dropping figure as it featured a cut out detail across the midriff and legs.

Zendaya also sported a pair of silver gloves along with matching knee-high boots while she wore her locks in an updo.

Florence, 28, looked incredible in a dark brown shimmering gown that featured a plunging neckline and matching hood.

Zendaya commanded attention as she and her co-star Florence Pugh lead the stars attending the Dune: Part Two premiere in Leicester Square, London on Thursday

The actress, 27, wore a piece of fashion history to the event as she donned a Thierry Mugler robot suit from his fall/winter 1995 Couture Collection

The skintight outfit highlighted the star's jaw-dropping figure as it featured a cut out detail across the midriff and legs

Zendaya also sported a pair of silver gloves along with matching knee-high boots as she posed with her co-star Timothee Chalamet

The backless garment also fetured a shimmering detail and a flowing train while Florence added height to her frame with a pair of heels.

Wearing her blonde locks in a cropped style, the Don't Worry Darling star completed her look with a pair of silver drop earrings.

Florence, who plays Princess Irulan in the sci-fi epic, was joined on the red carpet by her grandmother who she affectionately calls 'Granzo Pat'.

Pat was dressed in a white shirt and matching trousers along with a cream coat with a black ring print.

Zendaya's robot suit wasn't her only look of the night as she soon changed into more traditional red carpet attire with a slinky black dress.

The star's second look featured a low cut neckline while Zendaya complimented the dress with silver earrings and an eye-catching emerald ring.

Rebecca Ferguson cut a glamorous figure in a black sleeveless dress with a silver print running along the centre.

The garment also featured a matching cape while Rebecca styled her brunette tresses into a sleek updo.

The actress, 40, who plays Lady Jessica in the blockbuster, completed her look for the evening with a light palette of makeup.

Timothee Chalamet caught the eye with his look, arriving to the event in a pair of silver patterned trousers.

Florence, 28, looked incredible in a dark brown shimmering gown that featured a plunging neckline and matching hood

Florence was joined on the red carpet by her grandmother who she affectionately calls 'Granzo Pat'

Zendaya's robot suit wasn't her only look of the night as she soon changed into more traditional red carpet attire with a slinky black dress

Rebecca Ferguson cut a glamorous figure in a black sleeveless dress with a silver print running along the centre

Timothee Chalamet caught the eye with his look, arriving to the event in a pair of silver patterned trousers

Austin Butler put on an animated display as he arrived at the premiere wearing a black blazer with high-waisted trousers and a white T-shirt

Lea Seydoux put on a racy display in a silver figure-hugging dress with cut-out sleeves and a sweetheart neckline

Greta Gerwig looked radiant as ever for the screening as she donned a long-sleeved striped top with a pleated skirt

Anya Taylor-Joy showed off her quirky sense of style by donning a white plunging gown with a sheer headscarf

Florence commanded attention as she arrived to the after party where she carried a peach handbag

Zendaya's boyfriend Tom Holland attended the premiere after party wearing a black vest and matching trousers

Zendaya was surrounded by fans eager for autographs as she arrived to the after party

Lea opted for a more casual look later in the evening as she changed into a blazer and blue jeans

The actor, 28, who once again takes on the lead role of Paul Atreides, paired it with a black loose-fitting tip and matching shoes along with a pair of sunglasses.

Austin Butler put on an animated display as he arrived at the premiere wearing a black blazer with high-waisted trousers and a white T-shirt.

Greta Gerwig looked radiant as ever for the screening as she donned a long-sleeved striped top with a pleated skirt.

The Barbie director added height to her frame with a pair of white boots and styled her blonde locks into a pixie cut.

Anya Taylor-Joy covered herself in a sheer white veil which encompassed her whole head, her blonde locks peaking out the front.

Underneath the veil, Anya opted for stunning white pleated dress which featured a daring plunging top half as she opted to go braless for the event.

Completing the look with some white strappy heels, the star added a pop of colour with a bold red lip colour to contrast the look.

In recent days rumours have been circling as to whether Anya had a role in the Dune follow up after fans noticed that Letterboxd featured Dune: Part Two among the list of films starring Anya.

The credit has since been removed, but screenshots continued to circulate.

The new Dune sequel takes place immediately after the first film ended

Zendaya ensured all eyes were on her as she posed for the cameras

Timothee was in demand at the premiere as he posed for pictures with several fans

Austin, who plays Feyd-Rautha Harkonnen in the film, also posed for snaps with fans

Zendaya had some help on the red carpet to make sure her outfit was in tip top shape

Jean Campbell opted for a white long-sleeved midi dress while Souheila Yacoub looked incredible in a black strapless dress

Josh Brolin cut a suave figure ina dark grey suit which he paired with a white shirt

Josh Brolin, Florence Pugh, Lea Seydoux, Rebecca Ferguson, Souheila Yacoub, Zendaya, Timothee Chalamet, Stellan Skarsgård, Austin Butler and Anya Taylor-Joy posed together at the premiere

The sequel was co-produced with Legendary Entertainment in addition to Warner Bros. Film Group

And on Thursday Variety confirmed that the star does in fact make an appearance in the sci-fi epic as she plays a major character from the franchise.

Lea Seydoux put on a racy display in a silver figure-hugging dress with cut-out sleeves and a sweetheart neckline.

The garment also featured a sheer detail and glowing train with the No Time To Die star pairing it with gold stilettos.

Letting her blonde locks fall loose down her shoulders, the French beauty completed her outfit with an eye-catching silver necklace.

The new Dune sequel takes place immediately after the first film ended, when Paul (Timothee) and his mother joined forces with Chani (Zendaya) and the rest of the desert-dwelling Fremen to get revenge against the evil House Harkonnen, whose members have killed most of his family and friends.

The film was originally scheduled for a late October 2023 release, before being pushed back to November and finally shuffled all the way back to March of this year following the dual writers and actors strikes.

The sequel was co-produced with Legendary Entertainment in addition to Warner Bros. Film Group.