A 41-year-old who lives with her dog in a motorhome travelling up and down the UK after quitting her job as an air traffic controller has said she now 'knows how snails feel' and loves the freedom of life with her home 'on her back'.

Kat Bird, a blogger originally from Jersey, began living in a motorhome with her daughter and her husband, who she would prefer not to name, in 2017 to help home-school her daughter by taking her to places, rather than 'learning out of a textbook'.

Kat believes her family benefited from this experience, with her daughter being able to 'interact with adults a lot better'.

Her daughter decided to go back to mainstream college to do her A-Levels, but once she went off to university, Kat quit her job to travel full-time.

Kat Bird (pictured) lives in a motorhome with her dog and travels up and down the UK. The 41-year-old said she now 'knows how snails feel' and loves the freedom of her life with her home 'on her back'

Kat makes an income through blogging about her travels and says her monthly bills are lower than living in a house

Kat and her husband travelled until they separated in 2022, and Kat now travels by herself with her five-year-old spaniel called Mac, travelling not just in the UK, but abroad in places such as Ireland and Italy.

She only spends around £1,000 a month, on petrol and Wi-Fi, and makes an income by blogging about her travel experiences and talking at shows. Plus, she has written several books about motorhoming and van life.

Kat told PA Real Life: 'I have the ability to go wherever I want with my home on my back – I know how snails feel.

'It's amazing not having to pack or figure out where you want to go.

Kat quit her job as an air traffic controller in 2018 to travel full time and claimed the first month she did receive a proper wage was 'terrifying'

'I sort of wing it when it comes to where I go.'

She added: 'My spending varies and depends on where I'm staying, but it's definitely cheaper than a house.

'I reckon I average probably around £1,000 a month – that includes things like insurance and the dog.

'Most of it goes on petrol. I don't stay in one place very often.'

The move to a motorhome was prompted by Kat's daughter having 'some issues at school'.

'We got her through her GCSEs,' Kat said.

'Instead of learning history out of a textbook, for example, we took her to different places to see it for herself, such as Germany to see things about the war.'

Kat believes that she and her family benefited as a whole from living in such close quarters.

She said: 'My daughter is an only child, and I think the experience made her interact with adults a lot better.

'She heard us having conversations about money and things, and she was always included in higher-level adult stuff that a lot of kids perhaps don't see.

'I think looking back she can see it made us closer as a family too.'

Kat quit her job as an air traffic controller in 2018.

Kat began living in her motorhome in 2017 to homeschool her daughter. She is pictured above with her five-year-old spaniel, Mac

Kat Bird, a blogger originally from Jersey, began living in a motorhome with her daughter and her husband, who she would prefer not to name, in 2017 to help homeschool her daughter by taking her to places, rather than 'learning out of a textbook'

She said: 'Initially the plan was to travel around my husband's work, but after just a few weeks, I needed something more to do so started a small blog, called Wandering Bird, sharing my travels and adventures.

'The first month when I didn't get a proper wage into my bank account was terrifying.

'It definitely teaches you to be more mindful with money and figure out what's important and what you can live without.'

The pair travelled for the next few years until their 2022 separation.

Kat's home is a £50,000 Swift 685 motorhome, which she explains is around seven metres long with a lounge area and a drop-down bed.

She continued: 'It's the perfect size for me, with lots of storage, a kitchen, a shower and a toilet.'

Kat's home is a £50,000 Swift 685 motorhome, which she explains is around seven metres long with a lounge area and a drop-down bed

Kat has travelled solo to Europe and all over the UK in her motorhome

Kat has travelled solo both abroad and in the UK – when she is in Europe, she tends to wild park, and in the UK, she usually resides in campsites.

'I've been to Ireland, all over the UK and even Iceland last year, which was amazing,' she said.

'I think my favourite place I've been is Iceland or the Dolomites in Italy – they're both incredible.'

Kat says she combats loneliness by connecting with those with similar lifestyles online. She's pictured above in Iceland

Asked if there is anything she misses from being in a traditional house, she said: 'I think winter in a van is definitely harder, especially when you've got a spaniel who likes water and mud, and generally becomes messy.

'I miss having a proper washing machine and a tumble dryer, but many of the campsites have got those facilities, so that's not that bad.

'I also miss not having to empty the toilet!

'But I think overall, just the convenience of having everything on hand, is so much nicer.'

Kat has been able to combat any loneliness by connecting with those with similar lifestyles online.

The blogger (above, in Iceland) says she doesn't stay in one place for too long and claims most of her expenses go towards petrol

She said: 'I post videos on my Wandering Bird blog about my life and travels, plus tips and places that I've been.

'I run a Facebook group, too, where people share advice. It's a really nice group.'

Looking to the future, she said: 'I can't see myself giving up this lifestyle any time soon – I have so many more plans on where to travel – I wouldn't change my life one bit.'

Kat will be speaking at The Caravan, Camping & Motorhome Show, which is returning to the NEC Birmingham from 13 – 18 February 2024.

Tickets are on sale now – ccmshow.co.uk