Ministers were today urged to address a dip in the number of applicants wanting to study nursing in England.

One union chief warned the future of the NHS may depend on overhauling the drop.

Latest Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) data shows only 24,680 people applied to study nursing at university in England as of January.

It marked the lowest figure in six years — down from 27,370 applicants the year prior and the 33,410 recorded in 2022, when there was a huge post-Covid boom in applications.

Many attributed the surge to Brits being inspired by the heroism of nurses during the pandemic after seeing nurses don PPE to help patients on Covid wards.

The latest data from Universities and Colleges Admissions Service show only 24,680 people applied to study nursing at university in England as of January this year a massive decline compared to the last few years

The Royal College of Nursing called on the Government to use next month's Budget to fund emergency measures to boost applications such as abolishing student loans for nurses.

NHS hospitals are currently short of around 40,000-plus FTE nurses.

The new UCAS figures aren't a return to pre-pandemic returns but an actual decline compared to applicants seen in 2019.

Across the UK overall, the number of nursing applicants fell 7.4 per cent year-on-year to 31,100.

The decline was across all nursing specialisms but especially pronounced in adult nursing and mental health nursing.

READ MORE: The INTER-National Health Service! A fifth of NHS staff are foreign nationals - with India, the Philippines and Nigeria making up the majority of the 215 countries now represented A fifth of NHS staff in England are now foreign nationals, according to estimates. Three in 10 nurses and more than a third of doctors are non-UK residents — the first time this milestone has been reached Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/health/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Mental health nurse vacancies are particularly bad in many parts of England, in some regions as many as one in five posts are currently empty.

UCAS attributed the fall in nursing applicants as being driven by a reduction in the number of mature Brits seeking to move into healthcare.

Pat Cullen, general secretary of the RCN, expressed her 'deep concern about the rapidly deteriorating state of nurse recruitment' in a letter to Health Secretary Victoria Atkins.

The Government unveiled the NHS Long Term Workforce Plan last year, hailing it as a 'once in a generation' opportunity to employ 300,000 extra nurses, doctors and other health workers.

However, Ms Cullen wrote that a 'failure to address these critical issues' will make the ambitions laid out in the plan 'unattainable' and could leave 'the health care system dangerously understaffed and unable to meet the growing demands of patients'.

She added: 'These latest figures expose a widening gap between the aspirations of the plan and the level of political effort required to make them a reality.

'This needs immediate intervention and corrective action to protect patients now and in the future.

'A decline in applicants risks causing a cascading effect, with fewer students accepted onto nursing courses leading to diminished course cohorts and eventually lower numbers graduating and becoming registered nurses.

'The government must recognise the severity of this emergency and take immediate action to prevent further decline in nursing recruitment.

'We believe the current situation poses a direct threat to the sustainability of the NHS and patient safety, considering the existing 10.3 per cent vacancy rate in nursing positions within the NHS in England.'

As well as a loan forgiveness scheme, the RCN is also calling on the Government to fund nursing students’ tuition fees and reintroduce universal living maintenance grants.

Saffron Cordery, deputy chief executive at NHS Providers, said trust leaders are likely to be 'extremely worried' by the decline in nursing applications 'especially as the NHS is grappling with over 121,000 workforce vacancies, of which 42,000 are in nursing'.

She added: 'Operational pressures and challenges including wider unresolved industrial disputes impact retention and morale, so there is concern that staffing gaps could widen further.

'The NHS Long Term Workforce Plan is a welcome blueprint to shore up staff numbers, but without adequate measures to ensure the NHS remains attractive to both future and existing staff, it risks amounting to nothing more than a pipedream.

'We look forward to the Government providing detail on how it will fund and implement the plan so that the NHS can plan effectively, ensuring it has the right resources in place to meet evolving healthcare needs.'

Pat Cullen, general secretary of the RCN, expressed her 'deep concern about the rapidly deteriorating state of nurse recruitment' in a letter to Health Secretary Victoria Atkins

Vanessa Wilson, chief executive of University Alliance, said: 'The continued decline in applications for subjects like teaching, nursing and midwifery spell trouble for the future of our public sector.

'A concerted effort to reverse these trends will be required from Government, the NHS and universities if we are to meet the ambitions set out in the NHS Long Term Workforce Plan.'

A Department of Health and Social Care spokesperson said: 'The number of applicants still continues to outstrip the places on offer.

'Nursing and midwifery training places are competitive, and lead to an attractive and important career in the NHS.

'Record numbers of nurses are now working in the NHS, and the first ever NHS Long Term Workforce Plan will add 24,000 more nurse and midwifery training places by 2031. – backed by over £2.4 billion.

'We’re working with UCAS so everyone who wants to pursue a rewarding healthcare career has the support and opportunities to do so.'

The future of nursing in the NHS has been under the spotlight over the last 12 months.

Historic strike action saw NHS nurses take to the picket lines in England in a dispute over pay.

The campaign saw claims that NHS nurses were leaving the profession for less demanding roles in supermarkets for equal or better pay than what they received in the health service.

The most common foreign nationality for nurses is Indian, accounting for 10.1 per cent of all FTE nurses and health visitors, followed by Filipino, Nigerian and Irish. For doctors Indian was the most common non-UK nationality, accounting for 8 per cent of all doctors, followed by Pakistani, Egyptian and Nigerian

While the dispute has been formally resolved after an RCN ballot to continue the action failed union officials have continually hinted that NHS nurses pay is still not enough to encourage people to join the profession.

The dispute ended in June after the Government put forward a settlement offer of a 5 per cent salary increase and one-off bonus of up to £3,789 for 2022.

A newly graduated NHS nurses now takes home £28,407.

England's burgeoning nursing recruitment crisis after new analysis showed the number of foreign staff working in the health service now stands at one in five.

Rates are even higher for nurses and health visitors with one third of the workforce not originally from the UK.

The most common foreign nationality was Indian, accounting for 10.1 per cent of the NHS's entire nurses and health visitors, followed by Filipino, Nigerian and Irish.