Joe Swash shocked wife Stacey Solomon as he splashed out on a £70,000 campervan for a family holiday to Loch Ness.

The Loose Women presenter, 34, shared a clip of her husband Joe on Instagram where he gave fans a tour of the new vehicle.

She claimed fellow TV personality Joe, 42, made the huge purchase to 'spite' her, as she scolded him for being 'out of order'.

Joe was seen driving his new purchase down the driveway of his and Stacey's £2million home.

'OMFG note to self,' Stacey captioned the clip. 'Never underestimate Joe's ability to make something happen just to spite me.'

Joe Swash shocked wife Stacey Solomon as he splashed out on a £70,000 campervan for a family holiday to Loch Ness

The Loose Women presenter, 34, shared a clip of her husband Joe on Instagram where he gave fans a tour of the new vehicle

The new van comes complete with a bunk bed, small dining area and an extra bed above the driver's seat, as well as a microwave, a wardrobe and plenty of storage.

In the first clip, Stacey was heard saying: 'Oh dear. Is he joking?'

She then shared a follow up post where her and Joe's children Rex and Rose could be seen inside the campervan.

'You are out of order,' Stacey said, scolding her husband for the purchase.

The children stood excitedly by their father as he piped back 'Come on! The kids love me!'

'What the hell,' Stacey replied. 'Oh my god Joe. Are you not scared at all?' to which he said: 'Why would I be scared, the adventure of a lifetime.'

Going into more detail about the campervan, Stacey captioned the clip: 'He's so happy with himself.

'Honestly it will be an adventure & I'm excited for the kids. OMG I'm genuinely scared.'

Stacey is currently in Inverness with Joe and her five kids - Zachary, Leighton, Rex, Rose and Belle, the latter three she shares with Joe.

It comes after Stacey and Joe looked every inch the happy couple as they enjoyed a romantic date night on Valentine's Day.

Samantha then shared a follow up post where her and Joe's children Rex and Rose could be seen inside the campervan

Stacey claimed fellow TV personality Joe, 42, made the huge purchase to 'spite' her, as she scolded him for being 'out of order'

Letting her blonde locks fall loose down her shoulders, the former X Factor star added to her look with a silver necklace

Stacey looked nothing short of sensational for the evening as she slipped into a sparkly pink mini dress with a low-cut neckline.

Letting her blonde locks fall loose down her shoulders, the former X Factor star added to her look with a silver necklace.

Joe, 42, kept it casual for the date as he wore a black T-shirt with matching slim-fitting jeans and a belt.

Holding hands with her partner, Stacey looked on cloud nine as he leaned in and gave her a kiss.

The couple were surrounded by a bouquet of pink and red roses along with several heart-shaped balloons.

But in an update on her Stories Stacey admitted their big night out was not going to plan. 'I am already regretting making this night happen,' she joked. 'Joe's tipsy and my feet hurt, we haven't even left.'

Stacey also shared photos of herself taken earlier in the day with her and Joe's children Rex, three, Rose, two, and one-year-old Belle.

The TV personality is also mother to sons Zachary, 15, and Leighton, 11, from previous relationships while Joe shares his son Harry, 15, with his ex Emma Sophocleous.

The Loose Women presenter, 34, looked nothing short of sensational for the evening as she slipped into a sparkly pink mini dress with a low-cut neckline

Stacey also shared photos of herself taken earlier in the day with her and Joe's children Rex, three, Rose, two, and one-year-old Belle

Earlier in the day, Stacey informed fans she and Joe were going to go 'night clubbing' and have a child free night to celebrate the romantic day.

The star tried on a series of outfits and asked fans if she could 'pull off' any of the looks or if she looked 'ridiculous' because she is 'too old' for them.

First up, Stacey was seen jumping into a very skinny pair of black leather look leggings which she teamed with a black heart shaped dazzling crop top.

Readjusting her boobs in the number, she said: 'My god I don't know what I was thinking. I don't know if I can pull this off.'

Turning to the side, Stacey couldn't contain her laughter as she accidentally flashed her side boob in the racy top.

She added: 'I think its cute, I thought it's like dressed up but not too dressy but does it look ridiculous? Is this a stupid idea, I do really like it but I don't know if I feel a bit silly.'