Fans of Matthew Perry were outraged when he was left off the memoriam list at the 77th EE British Academy Film Awards on Sunday.

The Friends star was found dead in his hot tub towards the end of October at the age of 54 but despite his illustrious career in film after finding fame as Chandler Bing on the NBC sitcom, he was not included in the tribute at the annual awards ceremony.

Viewers were left furious at the lack of mention, as one fumed: 'I love the BAFTAs so much right. I watch it religiously every year.

'But to not include Matthew Perry in the in Memoriam is actually shocking'

Another said: 'Shame on you @BAFTA for not acknowledging @MatthewPerry #BAFTA2024'

Fans of Matthew Perry were outraged when he was left off the memoriam list at the 77th EE British Academy Film Awards on Sunday

The list paid tribute to a host of film actors who have passed away within the last year

Another user claimed that the BAFTA organisers had 'forgotten' to include the 'great' actor in their list.

Following his rise to fame on the 1990s sitcom alongside Jennifer Aniston, Courteney Cox, David Schwimmer, Lisa Kudrow and Matt LeBlanc, he starred in a host of Hollywood films including The Whole Nine Yards and Birds of America.

In 2009, he starred alongside Zac Efron in 17 Again in what became his final cinematic appearance.

One fan suggested to another that the tragic star is more likely to be featured at the television awards later this year because of his signature role.

But in their reply, the fan protested that the Hollywood star was still a 'huge name' in cinema.

However, shortly afterwards, a spokesperson confirmed that Matthew would indeed be remembered during the next ceremony.

A spokesman said: 'I can confirm he will be remembered in our forthcoming Television Awards'.

During Sunday's ceremony, stars to be remembered included late Harry Potter star Sir Michael Gambon, rock and roll legend Tina Turner and actress-turned MP Glenda Jackson.

Matthew played the older version of the lead character in 17 Again opposite High School Musical star Zac Efron (left, pictured in 2009)

But he was best known for starring as Chandler Bing on Friends (picture with Courteney Cox, Jennifer Aniston , David Schwimmer , Matt LeBlanc and Lisa Kudrow)

Matthew - who battled with drugs and alcohol addiction for years before his death - was last during the 2024 Emmy Awards' In Memoriam segment.

Charlie Puth sung the 2015 song he's featured on with Wiz Khalifa entitled I'll See You Again, which was written as a tribute to the late Paul Walker and featured on the soundtrack of Furious 7.

Puth was joined by The War and Treaty for this In Memoriam rendition, though they had quite the surprise up their sleeve.

Towards the end of the song, they suddenly broke into a more soulful rendition of the Friends theme song I'll Be There For You by The Rembrandts - after Jennifer Aniston urged fans to celebrate his life at the Critics Choice Awards.