A £250 drug used to help treat Brits with rheumatoid arthritis could also prevent the agonising condition, researchers have suggested.

Abatacept, which patients inject themselves at home or in hospital via a drip, works by targeting the cause of inflammation.

But a team led by Kings College London found it could keep the condition at bay entirely or significantly delay its onset when used by those who had symptoms of the disease, suggesting they were at high risk.

This would save many from the irreversible damage that rheumatoid arthritis causes, which can be disfiguring and disabling.

Researchers said their findings could be 'promising news' for the NHS as it battles to keep up with an ageing population.

Abatacept, which patients inject themselves at home or in hospital via a drip, works by targeting the cause of inflammation. But a team led by Kings College London found it could keep the condition at bay entirely or significantly delay its onset when used by those who had symptoms of the disease, suggesting they were at high risk

The condition, which affects around 450,000 people in the UK, develops when the immune system attacks cells that line the inside of joints such as the knees, hips, wrists and fingers.

This causes painful inflammation that leaves joints stiff, swollen and immobile.

Other common symptoms include fatigue and fever, as the inflammation affects other parts of the body.

It’s not known what triggers rheumatoid arthritis, but a family history is a key factor, while common infections such as a cold, or exposure to toxins in the environment, may also be possible catalysts to the rogue immune reaction.

Some 213 patients were recruited from 28 hospital-based early arthritis clinics in the UK and the Netherlands.

READ MORE: Hope for hundreds of thousands with type 1 diabetes as major study reveals arthritis drug can suppress the condition Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/health/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

They were all evaluated to be at risk of rheumatoid arthritis by researchers.

Of the total, 110 were given abatacept and the remainder assigned to a placebo group.

The estimated proportion of patients remaining arthritis-free at 12 months was 92.8 per cent in the abatacept group and 69.2 per cent in the placebo group.

After two years, a quarter of all members (27) of the abatacept group had progressed to rheumatoid arthritis compared to 37 per cent (38) in the placebo group.

Professor Andrew Cope, of King's College London, said: 'This is the largest rheumatoid arthritis prevention trial to date and the first to show that a therapy licensed for use in treating established rheumatoid arthritis is also effective in preventing the onset of disease in people at risk.'

Professor Cope said the 'initial results' — published in The Lancet — could be 'good news for people at risk of arthritis'.

'This is also promising news for the NHS as the disease affects people as they age and will become more expensive to treat with a growing aging population,' he added.

Meanwhile, Professor Lucy Donaldson, director for research and health intelligence at the charity Versus Arthritis, said: 'An accurate arthritis diagnosis often takes months or years, which is simply unacceptable.

'Treatment delays resulting from a prolonged diagnosis can cause irreversible joint damage, with chronic pain, fatigue and disability hugely impacting a person's life.

'A prompt diagnosis followed by personalised treatment and support can make all the difference between someone being able to work and care for their family, or in losing their independence altogether.

'This research highlights how important it is to spot the early signs of arthritis to give us a chance at stopping it in its tracks, offering hope to thousands of people living with — or at risk of developing — rheumatoid arthritis.'

Abatacept, sold under the brand name Orencia, has been licensed as a treatment since 2007 and comes in the form of a pre-filled, pen-like device.

The condition, which affects around 450,000 people in the UK, develops when the immune system attacks cells that line the inside of joints such as the knees, hips, wrists and fingers. This causes painful inflammation that leaves joints stiff, swollen and immobile. Other common symptoms include fatigue and fever, as the inflammation affects other parts of the body

Each 250mg vial costs of £242.17, according to drugs watchdog the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Nice).

Researchers also found other outcomes of using the drug, such as lower pain scores and higher quality of life measurements among patients.

One patient, Philip Day, 35, of Eltham in London, was enrolled in the trial in 2018 and was prescribed abatacept.

Joint pain has prevented the once-keen footballer from taking part in the sport.

He said: 'The pain got so terrible I stopped going to football, and I got lazier and felt progressively worse physically and mentally. The pain was unpredictable, it would show up in my knees one day, my elbows the next, and then my wrists or even my neck.

'At the time, my wife and I wanted to have children and I realised my future was pretty bleak if the disease progressed. I'd always wanted to be the kind of dad that played football with his son and I knew the pain would stop me from realising that dream.'

Mr Day described the trial as a 'ray of hope at a dark time'.

He added: 'Within a few months I had no more aches or pains and five years on I'd say I've been cured. Now, I can play football with my three-year-old son and have a normal life.'