Amanda Serrano has insisted she can deliver a stoppage-victory against Katie Taylor should the pair re-ignite their feud in the ring.

The undisputed featherweight champion collided with Taylor in a seismic showdown back in 2022 at Madison Square Garden, in what was a historic night for women’s boxing.

It was the first-ever women’s bout held at the iconic New York arena, drawing an audience of over 1.5million viewers from around the world.

Taylor would ultimately claim a split decision victory against the Puerto Rican, but the prospect of enacting revenge is something that excites Serrano, who admitted Taylor would be the only boxer she would consider coming back to fight at two-minute rounds for.

'Definitely, I would love the rematch,' the undisputed featherweight champion told Mail Sport. 'And for Katie, she’d be the only person that I'm willing to go back to the two minutes for.'

Undisputed featherweight champion Amanda Serrano says she would love to have a rematch against Katie Taylor

Serrano (left) was beaten by Taylor (right) via split decisionn in their seismic clash back in 2022

Serrano (R), who vacated her WBC title in December, stated that Taylor (L) would be the only fighter she'd come back to face at two-minute rounds for

The Puerto Rican had vacated her WBC title in December 2023, after the organisation had refused to sanction 12 three-minute round contests. Women's fights are generally contested over 10 two-minute rounds. But Serrano gave up her title stating she wanted the sport to evolve to allow female fighters to compete in the same format as male boxers.

'Even if she wants to do three minutes, then we can do it at three minutes. But she’ll be the only one that I would go back to the two minutes for and it will be a great fight. We had a great first fight and I think the second would be even better because I'm going to be a little stronger and smarter.’

She added: 'If we have the rematch, I believe I can get the stoppage this time.'

It's been a whirlwind 12 months for Serrano after she became the first Puerto Rican fighter, male or female, to be crowned the undisputed world champion, before successfully defending her titles, twice.

But the next 12 months could be equally as significant. While a rematch with Taylor is yet to be agreed, she faces the huge hurdle of besting Nina Meinke on March 2, in front of a sell-out home crowd in San Juan, Puerto Rico.

The bout will be the culmination of an exciting night of boxing, with her promoter, Jake Paul, also set to return to the ring on the same card to fight Ryan Bourland.

Serrano was making headlines as one of women's boxing's biggest talents before she signed with Paul's Most Valuable Promotions [MVP] in 2021. Despite that, joining the organisation has been, for her, one of the best decisions of her career.

'He [Paul] and Nakisa Bidarian [his business partner] changed my life completely,' she said.

Serrano (left) will take on Nina Meinke (right) in front of a sell-out home crowd in Puerto Rico on March 2

Serrano joined MVP in 2021 and claimed that it's co-owners Jake Paul (left) and Nakisa Bidarian (right) completely changed her life

There's no doubting that the move has been pivotal. Serrano has been able to use the platform that the YouTuber-turned-boxer has created to grow her profile as one of the best fighters on the planet.

'Jake is a great guy, you know, he wanted a girl on his card back in 2021. And I was the lucky girl!'

'I had to make sure I went out there and performed. After that, they called me up and said, “would you like to be signed with MVP?” And I said, “yes let's do it.” And it changed my life.

'They just did more viewership not just to me but for women's boxing. A lot more people are more attentive to women's boxing. They know that women box and we can fight. So, it's been an exciting two to three years with Jake, Nakisa and MVP and they always want the best for me, which is super, super different than what I'm used to.'

Known for his outspoken character and extravagant lifestyle, Paul has quickly grown to becoming one of the big names within boxing, having recently claimed victory against former UFC star Nate Diaz and a first-round knockout win against Andre August in December.

Serrano lauded Paul (pictured) for making her feel calm during interviews and insisted she wanted to make him proud in the ring

Eddie Hearn last week hinted at the possibility of a rematch between Taylor and Serrano

Serrano added: 'Jake's persona is different than what he shows online. He gives me the confidence to go out there and perform'

Serrano and Paul have also been seen working in the gym together, with a humorous video emerging online of the undisputed featherweight champion unloading a fury of punches into Paul's abs.

'Jake is a character so he's always especially when we're doing interviews or where we're around each other. He relaxes me and keeps me calm,' she said.

'It's just his persona is different than what he shows on online. He's just a different person.

'And he gives me the confidence just to go out there and perform because I always want to make him proud. I want to make the team proud. MVP proud. So, I'm always pushing myself to the hardest of my best abilities.'

So, what does this year hold in store for Serrano? Well, while the undisputed featherweight champion isn't looking much further past her fight against Meinke, she remains excited about the growth of women’s boxing.

'The event is going to be big. The arena is almost sold out. That's an honour for a woman to do that.

In 2023, Serrano became the first Puerto Rican fighter, male or female, to be crowned undisputed champion after her victory against Erika Cruz

Serrano added that 'women's boxing is progressing tremendously as a sport and that it is only going to get better'

'But yeah, it's going to be a great night and last time I fought in Puerto Rico it was during COVID so there was no audience. Now I have got to be in front of 18,000 to 19,000 people, I have to go out there and put on a performance, like I always do. And we have a great card.

'I think Women's Boxing is progressing tremendously and it's only going to get better. We have amazing talent coming into the sport. So, I'm excited to see the future women's boxing.'