John Travolta is celebrating his 70th birthday today.

Academy Award winner Jamie Lee Curtis, 65, co-starred with Travolta in the 1985 film Perfect, a romantic drama in which he plays a journalist and she plays an aerobics instructor.

'HAPPY BIRTHDAY @johntravolta. We have been friends and colleagues for a long time and we share a passion for our art and children and rescue pups!,' she captioned her Instagram post.

In her post, she shared a photo from the movie with him and a current pic of the two hanging out nearly 40 years later.

The Everything Everywhere All At Once also shared a shot of a Rolling Stone cover they appeared on together.

Academy Award winner Jamie Lee Curtis , 65, co-starred with John Travolta in the 1985 film Perfect, a romantic drama in which he plays a journalist and she plays an aerobics instructor

In her post, she shared a photo from the movie with him and a current pic of the two hanging out nearly 40 years later

Jamie Lee also shared a side by side of the photo of them now and a pic of Travolta holding a cute, small dog referencing the work the two celebs do for a dog rescue foundation called pawworks.

Former CBS Weekend News correspondent Astrid Martinez also shared wishes for the Face/Off actor's big birthday.

She shared a collage of photos of herself interviewing the legendary actor alongside a quote from the Grease song Summer Lovin'.

She captioned the post: 'John Travolta’s portrayal of Danny Zuko in the film Grease stands as one of the most memorable characters in film history. Definitely one of my all-time favorite musicals. Wishing him a happy 70th birthday!'

She also shared a quote from the movie in her caption. 'Danny? “That’s my name. Don’t wear it out.”' -Danny Zuko.

The Chinese Theater in Los Angeles shared a bit of nostalgia for the Urban Cowboy's star's 70th.

The iconic theater shared a black and white shot of Travolta dressed in a grey suit with a black shirt and black cowboy hat.

The caption read: 'Happy 70th birthday to John Travolta! He’s pictured at his imprint ceremony in 1980.'

The Everything Everywhere All At Once also shared a shot of a Rolling Stone cover they appeared on together

Jamie Lee also shared a side by side of the photo of them now and a pic of Travolta holding a cute, small dog referencing the work the two celebs do for a dog rescue foundation called pawworks

Former CBS Weekend News correspondent Astrid Martinez also shared wishes for the Face/Off actor's big birthday. She captioned the post: 'John Travolta’s portrayal of Danny Zuko in the film Grease stands as one of the most memorable characters in film history. Definitely one of my all-time favorite musicals. Wishing him a happy 70th birthday!'

The Chinese Theater in Los Angeles shared a bit of nostalgia for the Urban Cowboy's star's 70th. The caption read: 'Happy 70th birthday to John Travolta! He’s pictured at his imprint ceremony in 1980'

Travolta has had a heck of a career rising to fame in the 1970s, facing a string of flops in the 1980s and resurrecting his career in the 1990s with Pulp Fiction and Face/Off.

His life as been marked by a trio of tragedies. John's first love, actress Diana Hyland, was 18 years older than him. The two dated for two years until she died from breast cancer in 1977.

In 2009, his oldest child with his wife, the late Kelly Preston, Jett Travolta, who suffered seizures and was autistic, died after hitting his head on a bathtub mid-seizure.

In 2020, his wife of 29 years, Kelly, also died after a secret battle with breast cancer.

Last year he paid tribute to his late wife on what would have been her 60th birthday: 'Happy Birthday Kelly! We love you!' he posted to Instagram along with a photo of Kelly.