The Duke of Sussex is expected to talk about King Charles III' cancer diagnosis

Prince Harry will appear in an interview on ABC's Good Morning America today

Prince Harry will discuss his father King Charles III's cancer diagnosis publicly for the first time in a TV interview with Good Morning America host Will Reeve today.

The Duke of Sussex will open up about 'his life with Meghan' and 'how his father is doing', as well as the Invictus Games 'wounded warriors' he supports, according to a 15-second teaser clip released overnight ahead of the interview airing later today.

A film crew led by Will Reeve, the son of the late Superman actor Christopher Reeve, has been following Harry and his wife Meghan Markle since they arrived in Canada on Tuesday for a countdown event to the Invictus Games in Whistler and Vancouver.

In a tweet posted at 1.49am UK time (9pm Eastern Time last night), the GMA account wrote: 'Exclusive: The all-new interview with Prince Harry on his life with Meghan, how his father King Charles is doing and his passion supporting wounded warriors.'

This was accompanied by a clip showing Harry speaking to Mr Reeve in Whistler and a photo of the King waving as he left The London Clinic on January 29. The interview will air today at some point between 12pm and 2pm UK time (7am and 9am Eastern).

A voiceover said: 'Tomorrow morning, a GMA exclusive, Prince Harry, the all-new interview on his life today with Meghan, how his father the King is doing and on his passion - supporting wounded warriors. Tomorrow on Good Morning America.'

The trip comes as they unveiled a rebrand on Monday with a glossy new Sussex.com website, which saw critics claim they were trying to cash in on royal connections. But last night, the Sussexes defiantly hit back by insisting: 'We will not be broken'.

The trip to Canada comes just over a week after Harry returned from a flying visit to London, where he met with his father for 45 minutes following his cancer diagnosis.

He was seen two days later at an NFL awards ceremony in Las Vegas but was absent from the Super Bowl last Sunday, before he and Meghan relaunched their website.

Meanwhile, Kensington Palace confirmed today that Harry's brother Prince William will attend the Bafta Film Awards at London's Royal Albert Hall this Sunday evening.

The Prince of Wales is the Bafta president and will watch the ceremony before meeting winners - and it comes ahead of a wider return to public duties as his wife Kate Middleton continues to recuperate following her abdominal surgery last month.

An interview with Prince Harry is being broadcast on ABC's Good Morning America today

The interview was shot as the couple enjoyed a spot of winter activities in Whistler, Canada

Helming the GMA crew is host Will Reeve (left), son of the Superman actor Christopher Reeve

The trailer includes a photo of King Charles waving as he left The London Clinic on January 29

Meghan Markle, Prince Harry and Will Reeve are seen in a trailer for the GMA interview today

Prince Harry speaks to Will Reeve in the interview which is being aired on GMA in the US today

Prince Harry and Meghan Markle both appear in the trailer for the interview on GMA today

Harry and Meghan have come under fire in recent days over their new Sussex.com website, in particular Meghan's coat of arms - which critics claim is a breach of their promise to the late Queen Elizabeth II when they quit front-line royal duties.

Their decision to change their children Archie and Lilibet's surnames to Sussex has also raised eyebrows among royal watchers.

The moves have sparked a fresh round of criticism of the Duke and Duchess and renewed calls for the duo to have their titles removed. But a representative told the Mirror that the couple 'will not be broken'.

They added: 'We've heard time and time again that certain opportunities are make or break for the couple. They're still here.

'They're still working and pursuing what they believe in, despite being constantly challenged and criticised. This couple will not be broken.'

Now, Harry has been interviewed for the first time since Charles postponed all public-facing duties because of his cancer diagnosis.

The Duke, who lives in California with his wife and their two children, Prince Archie and Princess Lilibet, flew to the UK last week to see the King.

He visited without Meghan and their children, less than 24 hours after the announcement about Charles' health.

Prince Harry speaks to Will Reeve at the Invictus Games 2025 event in Whistler yesterday

Prince Harry and Meghan Markle with ABC presenter Will Reeve in Whistler on Wednesday

Prince Harry is spotted alongside American TV presenter Will Reeve in Whistler on Wednesday

Camers follow Harry, Meghan and Will Reeve at the event in Whistler, Canada, on Wednesday

Will Reeve posted a photo on Instagram on Wednesday at the Invictus Games One Year To Go event on the Whistler Blackcomb ski resort, with the teasing caption: 'Bluebird Assignment'

Will Reeve is the son of the late Superman actor Christopher Reeve, who died in 2004 aged 52

But there was no meeting with his brother, the Prince of Wales, after Harry spent around 45 minutes at Clarence House seeing their father.

The interview comes after a week of announcements from Harry and his wife the Duchess of Sussex.

Meghan signed a deal with Lemonada Media to record new podcast shows, and the company will distribute her previous series.

Her Archetypes podcast about female stereotypes ran for just one series before a lucrative deal with Spotify ended in 2023.

Yesterday. The Sussex did not look phased as they took part in activities at the Invictus Games Vancouver Whistlers One Year To Go Winter Training Camp, while being followed around by a camera crew.

While Meghan did not take part in the bobsledding fun at the Whistler Sliding Center in British Columbia, she was able to enjoy every aspect of her husband's ride when he got off the sled - before he enthusiastically re-enacted it to his wife and Invictus volunteers after getting off.

The Duchess - who has joined her husband on a multi-day trip to Canada in honor of the one-year countdown to the 2025 Invictus Games - also served as her husband's personal photographer.

Meghan Markle is seen beaming and looking at her phone in Whistler yesterday

Meghan did not take part herself but appeared to enjoy the sight of Harry racing yesterday

Prince Harry enjoyed a thrill-filled ride around a skeleton bobsled track in Whistler yesterday

Meghan, 42, watched on with a huge smile on her face in awe of her husband Harry yesterday

Harry proved himself the thrill-seeker in Whistler yesterday on the skeleton bobsled track

While Meghan did not take part in the bobsledding yesterday, she was able to enjoy watching

Meghan smiles as she steps out in a black puffer coat, black jeans, ski boots and sunglasses

Meghan was wrapped up warm yesterday, sporting a navy beanie as she smiled at Harry

When asked by an onlooker whether she planned to join Harry on the sled, she said: 'I can't!'

Prince Harry reacts after sliding down the track on a skeleton sled in Whistler yesterday

The Duchess of Sussex opted to wear her hair down during the event in Whistler yesterday

She was beaming with pride as she held up her phone to snap images and clips as he whizzed to the end of the track.

But Meghan - who accessorized her phone with a $250 case from Bottega Veneta - was not the only videographer on hand to capture every moment of the Duke's whistle-top trip around the bobsled track.

The ABC crew was closely following the Sussexes, interviewing Harry for ten minutes after his first bobsledding adventure, before he set off for a second go around the track.

When asked by an onlooker whether she planned to join her husband in trying out the daring sport, Meghan laughingly yelled back: 'I can't!'

However, she watched on with pride as her husband completed his two runs - although she took some time to warm up in the back of the couple's Ford Expedition SUV while Harry took some time out from the track to chat with the GMA crew.

But before long, he was back at it, drawing his wife out of the car to watch on as he enjoyed a second race on the sled.

After whizzing round for a second time, a beaming Harry made his way down the hill arm-in-arm with Meghan, posing for pictures as they went.

Meghan held onto Harry's arm as the pair walked through the resort of Whistler yesterday

The Duke of Sussex laughed as he held his helmet and walked down the path yesterday

The Duke of Sussex achieved an impressive top speed of 61mph in Whistler yesterday

The Duchess clutched onto her husband's arm as she strolled through the resort yesterday

Meghan opted for natural makeup, as she donned a navy blue beanie in Whistler yesterday

After going round for a second time yesterday, Harry made his way down the hill with Meghan

The Duke of Sussex laughed as he held his crash helmet after taking a skeleton run yesterday

Meghan and Harry pose with a woman holding a flag during their trip to Whistler yesterday

Meghan beamed as she chatted to people at the event in Whistler yesterday

The pair have also been followed closely by a camera crew from Good Morning America

Meghan watched on as Harry tried his hand at skeleton bobsled yesterday

Meghan dressed for the cold weather, wrapped up warm in a scarf yesterday

The bobsled track, which is billed as the fastest in the world, includes a 485ft vertical drop

The Duke came in at a bit of an angle as he brought his run to an end in Whistler yesterday

Harry and Meghan kicked off day two of their Invictus Games One Year to Go tour shortly after 1pm local time yesterday (9pm UK time) - although their appearance at the venue was delayed by over 30 minutes while the Duke was given a safety briefing.

The couple, fresh from a romantic Valentine's Day dinner date, were both on chipper form as they made their entrance to the venue, with a beaming Harry whizzing past on his bobsled and Meghan quipping 'I can hear him' as his sled set off and filming him on her phone as he flashed past.

Meghan was wrapped up against the -4C (25F) temperatures in a black padded jacket and leggings and a navy hat and scarf while her husband kept things casual in gray pants and a black insulated Invictus Games-branded jacket - topped off with a white crash helmet.

After the high-speed arrival, to the sound of Invictus branded cowbells waved by onlookers, came a meet and greet with athletes preparing to perform at the event next year on a platform overlooking the track.

Among the athletes waiting to be introduced were Canadian veteran and mental health advocate Mark Beare, Estonian former soldier and amputee Rasmus Penno and Nigerian powerlifter and ex-soldier Peacemaker Azuegbulam.

Meghan watched on and took videos and photos of Harry as he whizzed down the track

The mother-of-two wore a black puffer jacket, black jeans, and a navy beanie yesterday

Meghan waves while attending the Invictus Games event in Whistler yesterday

Meghan beamed with pride as her husband recounted his trip around the track yesterday

Harry slides down the track on a skeleton sled during the Invictus Games event yesterday

The couple had a chat as film crews followed them around in Whistler yesterday

Meghan was wrapped up in a black padded jacket and leggings and a navy hat yesterday

Prince Harry was photographed dressed in thermals and holding his crash helmet yesterday

Peacemaker, a 27-year-old double amputee from Imo, Nigeria, made his skeleton debut immediately after Harry - despite never having seen snow or been on a bobsled before.

READ MORE I was told to address Harry and Meghan as sir and ma'am: New Invictus boss reveals he had to brush up on his royal protocol ahead of Sussex arrival at Whistler Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/news/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_5 - ->

Speaking to DailyMail.com, Peacemaker said he was thrilled to be reunited with the couple after being introduced to them at Invictus Games in Düsseldorf, Germany, last year where he won a gold medal in powerlifting.

Now preparing to take part in the skeleton competition at the 2025 Games, despite only making his debut today, the double amputee said the sport had helped him come to terms with the injuries he sustained during a firefight with Boko Haram terrorists in November 2020.

He said: 'At first I felt ashamed because of my injuries but then I was introduced to the Games and began with playing volleyball. Now I feel good, now I feel recovered.

'I am proud to be the first Invictus champion from Africa and I feel recharged. It totally changed my mindset.'

Certainly there could be no better place to try out the sport than at the track, which is part of the Whistler Blackcomb resort, a venue built specifically for the 2010 Winter Olympics which were also held in the town, and which boasts a bobsleigh, luge, and skeleton track.

Harry achieved an impressive top speed of 61mph during his daring adventure yesterday

Meghan was wrapped up against the chill in a black padded jacket and a navy hat yesterday

Harry kept things casual in a black insulated Invictus Games-branded jacket yesterday

Harry looked in high spirits as he tried his hand at the sport, with wife Meghan yesterday

Harry visits the Whistler Sliding Centre during the event for the Invictus Games yesterday

The appearance comes after Harry hit back at criticism over the new Sussex.com website

After whizzing round the track for a second time, a beaming Harry made his way down the hill

Harry appeared in great spirits after completing his attempt at the skeleton race yesterday

However, the track - which is billed as the fastest in the world - is not for the faint of heart, featuring a staggering 485ft (148m) vertical drop and 16 curves, while the surrounding stadium has space for 12,000 spectators.

EXCLUSIVE READ MORE Prince Harry and Meghan Markle share romantic Valentine's Day dinner at upscale Italian restaurant Il Caminetto after a day on the slopes in Whistler, Canada Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/news/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_6 - ->

Described by the International Bobsleigh & Skeleton Federation (IBSF) as an 'adrenaline sport', skeleton racing was developed more than 100 years ago in Switzerland when amateur daredevils began racing down icy slopes on toboggan sleds.

Ultimately, the hobby grew so popular that it was added to the Winter Olympics line-up - and the daring athletes who now take part in the sport now reach a staggering top speed of more than 93 miles-per-hour - more than 30 miles faster than Harry managed during his attempts.

While the row over Sussex.com remains ongoing, it has failed to detract from their enjoyment of the Invictus Games training camp with both seen laughing and joking with competitors on day one which took place on Wednesday in sub-zero conditions on the slopes of Blackcomb Mountain.

There, Harry tried his hand at sit-ski – an adapted version of the sport designed for amputees – while Meghan smiled broadly as she met visually impaired athletes who were nonetheless prepared to take to the slopes in next year's competition.

Meghan and Harry were joined at the track by a camera crew from Good Morning America

Meghan was bundled up in a chic black coat during the event in Whistler yesterday

The Duke of Sussex enjoyed not one but two goes around the skeleton track yesterday

The trip to the bobsled track comes after the pair kicked off their trip to Whistler yesterday

Harry and Meghan visited an Italian restaurant in Whistler for a Valentine's Day dinner

Later, the couple met First Nations youth ambassadors representing the native Canadian tribes on whose land the Games are taking place.

The duo privately toured the Squamish Lil'wat Cultural Center in Whistler where they were shown around by Chief Nelson and Wilson Williams and met artists who created the new Invictus Games logo for the event.

In a statement, Harry and Meghan said: 'The evening and presentation were extremely meaningful.

'IG2025 and the couple could not be more proud to share the artists' piece with the world. The couple recognizes the significance of the First Nation communities welcoming the Invictus Games onto their sacred land and are thankful for their warmth and hospitality.'

The pair, who have been staying in Whistler, are due to head back to Vancouver ahead of an event in the City of Glass today where Harry is due to make a speech.

After that, the couple are expected to head home to Montecito, California, where they will be reunited with their children Archie, four, and Lilibet, two.