Unauthorised spa complex at Captain Tom's daughter's house to be pulled down

Demolition teams this morning arrived at the home of Sir Captain Tom Moore's daughter to start tearing down her unauthorised £200,000 luxury spa complex at their family home - after being ordered to take it down.

A flatbed lorry with ladders was seen pulling up outside the property in Marston Moretaine in Bedfordshire this morning as builders prepared ready to start taking the building apart.

It is believed they will begin by removing the roof tiles from the spa complex, ahead of the demolition.

Workers have been pictured on newly working on newly erected scaffolding on the spa building.

Over the last few days Hannah Ingram-Moore and her husband, Colin have been seen removing items from the building and boxes and gym equipment have been seen piled up in front of their house.

Demolition and dismantling experts C. Jackson and Sons of Bedford appear to have been employed by Hannah Ingram-Moore and her husband Colin to pull down the building.

Demolition teams this morning arrived at the home of Sir Captain Tom Moore to start tearing down his daughter's unauthorised £200,000 luxury spa complex

Workers have been pictured on newly working on newly erected scaffolding on the spa building

A van from a demolition and dismantling contractor C. Jackson and Sons drives into the grounds and home of Hannah Ingram-Moore

Captain Tom Moore photographed in the garden of his home near with daughter Hannah Ingram-Moore on April 16 2020

Workmen arriving at the home of Captain Tom's daughter, Hannah Ingram-Moore and her husband, Colin, in Marston Moretaine in Bedfordshire, this morning as they prepare to demolish their luxury £200,000 spa complex

A worker from a scaffolding company carrying poles at Ingram-Moore's home this morning

Workers fit scaffolding ahead of works to demolish an unauthorised spa pool block

A low-loader lorry was seen entering the back garden of their home for scaffolding to be erected this morning.

A workman said: 'We are putting scaffolding up today. The pool will be removed before the building is knocked down on Monday.'

It comes after the family lost an appeal against Central Bedfordshire Council to keep their spa complex after a planning inspector ruled it was 'at odds' with their Grade ll listed home.

Mr and Mrs Ingram-Moore had been given permission to make a Captain Tom Foundation Building in their garden to store cards and gifts sent by admirers, but they added a sauna and spa, which were not part of the original plans.

Central Bedfordshire Council issued an enforcement notice last July to demolish the 'unauthorised building' and their appeal was dismissed last November.

Inspector Diane Fleming ruled in November that the spa block must be demolished within three months, by February 7, and Central Bedfordshire Council said it would be 'reviewing the onsite position' the following day, on February 8.

The deadline for the appeal decision to be challenged in the High Court passed without a claim being issued.

During a hearing in October, chartered surveyor James Paynter, for the appellants, said the spa pool had 'the opportunity to offer rehabilitation sessions for elderly people in the area'.

But Ms Fleming's written decision concluded the 'scale and massing' of the building had resulted in harm to the grade II-listed Old Rectory - the family's home.

The foundation is the subject of an investigation by the Charity Commission amid concerns about its management and independence from Sir Tom's family.

The charity watchdog opened a case into the foundation shortly after the 100-year-old died in 2021, and launched its inquiry in June 2022.

Scott Stemp, representing Ms Ingram-Moore and her husband, said at the appeal hearing that the foundation 'is to be closed down following an investigation by the Charity Commission'.

An aerial view of the property as workers prepare the spa building for demolition

A worker with a wooden plank as the demolition of Hannah Ingram-Moore's spa building gets underway

Scaffolding being fitted by workers today at the home of Hannah Ingram-Moore

A vehicle from Apex scaffolding and roofing company drives into the rear of the grounds and home of Hannah Ingram-Moore

A flatbed lorry with ladders was seen pulling up outside the property in Marston Moretaine in Bedfordshire this morning as builders prepared ready to start taking the building apart

A view of the spa pool block which is scheduled to be demolished at the home of Hannah Ingram-Moore

In August 2021, the Ingram-Moores were granted permission for a Captain Tom Foundation Building in the grounds of their home to support its charitable objectives.

The L-shaped building was given the green light, but Central Bedfordshire Council refused a subsequent retrospective application in 2022 for a larger C-shaped building containing a spa pool.

Their demolition order was supported by a planning inspector in November last year.

A neighbour walking her dog, who wished to remain anonymous, previously said: 'I definitely want that spa down... She is cutting it a bit fine with only two weeks to go.'

A view of the grounds and home of Hannah Ingram-Moore, the daughter of the late Captain Sir Tom Moore, at Marston Moretaine, Bedfordshire

Demolition contractors arrive at Sir Tom Moore's daughter's home in Bedfordshire today

Workers from a scaffolding company prepare to work on the demolition of the spa complex

Over the last few days Hannah Ingram-Moore and her husband, Colin have been seen removing items from the building and boxes and gym equipment have been seen piled up in front of their house

Workers putting up the scaffolding around the spa complex at Hannah Ingram-Moore's home

Sixty-seven-year-old Lesley Gough also previously said: 'A lot of people are affected by it. It ruins their view. There is no sign of demolition as of yet. Hannah didn't get the proper permission so, if you don't play by the rules, you have to be penalised.

'I don't know what will happen if she doesn't get it removed by the date she's been given. I wonder if she has got another plan in mind.

'I think she thinks she is untouchable.'

Another local resident, who also wanted to remain anonymous, added: 'I hope they make her take it down.

'She knew she had not got permission. I had to jump through hoops when I wanted to get something built.'

Captain Tom rose to fame after he raised almost £39million for NHS charities by walking around his garden 100 times using a walking frame during the first Covid lockdown in the spring of 2020.

He was later knighted by the Queen and died in February 2021.