It star Bill Skarsgård was fined Wednesday around $3,825 in connection with a possession of marijuana arrest at Stockholm, Sweden's Arlanda Airport that occurred back in October.

Authorities said the 33-year-old actor, who plays the role of Pennywise in the horror franchise, had been detained with 2.43 grams of marijuana at the time of his arrest at the travel hub, TMZ reported on Thursday.

The Stockholm, Sweden native entered a guilty plea to the allegations and was fined a total of 40,000 Swedish krona, which translates to $3,825 in U.S. dollars, in connection with the offense.

Skarsgård will not have to serve any time in custody or submit to conditions of parole or probation in connection with the guilty plea, according to the outlet.

Marijuana is illegal in Sweden on both medical and recreational levels, according to NordAN, the Nordic Alcohol and Drug Policy Network (NordAN), which is a non-governmental group that has aimed 'to reduce the consumption of alcohol and other drugs' since its inception in September 2000.

It star Bill Skarsgård, 33, was fined Wednesday around $3,825 in connection with a possession of marijuana arrest at Stockholm, Sweden 's Arlanda Airport that occurred back in October. Pictured at the Sundance Film Festival in Park City, Utah in January of 2020

The organization said that Swedish law regarding Cannabis is divided into four penalties: consumption, possession, manufacturing and distribution.

NordAN said that 'as individual substances are not regulated separately, penalties depend on such factors as the amount of possession of certain substances and their perceived dangerousness.'

Drug offenses deemed minor in Sweden can be punished by fines, or up to six months in custody, while standard drug offenses are punished by a minimum of 14 days and as many as three years in custody.

An aggravated drug offense is punishable by imprisonment for at least two years and up to seven years, the organization said, while a particularly aggravated drug offence is punished by a minimum of six years and as many as 10 years in custody.

Bill has been steadily working in recent years, with roles in films such as 2023's John Wick: Chapter 4, 2021's Eternals and 2018's Deadpool 2, as well as on the shows Clark (2022) and Castle Rock (2018–2019).

According to iMDb, he has a number of film roles on tap, in projects including The Crow, Nosferatu, Emperor, Locked and Lords of War.

Bill is a member of the famed Skarsgård acting family, as his father is veteran actor Stellan Skarsgård, 72, best known for his appearances in Good Will Hunting, Mamma Mia!, Dune and Amistad.

Bill's brothers are all actors: Succession star Alexander Skarsgård, 47; Oppenheimer actor Gustaf Skarsgård, 43; Valter Skarsgård, 28; Ossian Skarsgård, 14; and Kolbjörn Skarsgård, 11. His sister Eija Skarsgård, 31, is a model.

Skarsgård will not have to serve any time in custody or submit to conditions of parole or probation in connection with the guilty plea. Pictured in Utah in 2020

Skarsgård was pictured playing the role of Pennywise in the 2017 movie It

Bill was pictured in between brothers Alexander Skarsgård and Gustaf Skarsgård in London in 2019

Bill's father is actor Stellan Skarsgård, best known for his appearances in Good Will Hunting, Mamma Mia! and Dune. Pictured in Paris this past Monday at the Dune 2 premiere

Speaking with People in March of 2016, Bill said that he 'wanted to be an actor ever since I was a little kid.'

Bill added: 'As I got into my teenage years I thought, is it really me wanting this or because I want to follow in my dad's footsteps?'

He said that after exploring potential alternate careers involving science, Bill set his focus toward a career in front of the camera.

Bill said he sought to fight off claims of nepotism by taking an independent approach to his career, as he had 'felt a very strong need' to make it on his own.

'The association with my brothers and my father is already so big, I didn't want them to have anything to do with what I did,' Bill said. 'I needed them to feel that I am completely responsible for what I do.'