Lily Allen debuted her darker locks in an airport selfie on Saturday as she flew back from New York for her mother Alison's birthday.

The singer, 38, was back to her signature look after trialing a fiery red hairdo for the past few months.

Still sporting an orange hue, Lily looked stunning in the minimal make-up selfie as she waited in the terminal lounge ahead of the long haul flight.

Lily, who cut a chic figure in a black top and tailored coat, wrote: 'Heading home for mummy’s birthday. We won’t be getting a Chinese, my sisters cooking, and we won’t be watching TV because she’ll be on Facebook.'

Eagle-eyed fans noticed it referenced her 2008 hit Chinese which had the repeating lyric 'And we'll get a Chinese and watch TV'.

Lily Allen debuted her darker locks in an airport selfie on Saturday as she flew back from New York for her mother Alison's birthday

The singer, 38, was back to her signature look after trialing a fiery red hairdo for the past few months (right pictured on Sunday)

They wrote: 'Literally died when I realised this song reference, missed you so much' and 'fave song and so underrated'

Lily tagged her location as JFK International Airport Terminal 4.

The songstress has been in NYC for the past few weeks and recently shared an insight into her fitness regime as she hit the gym in Brooklyn,

The singer returned to social media for the first time in six weeks last week and provided glimpses into her day-to-day life in the city as Fashion Week kicked off.

Lily took to Instagram to share a series of photos from her personal training session and declared she is 'back on my bulls**t'.

The Smile hitmaker showed off her figure in a tiny brown sports bra and leggings as she was put through her paces.

Lily did weighted lunges, a plank and squats with a kettlebell during the gruelling workout.

The singer also posed this week in £830 red and blue floral towels.

Lily pleased fans when she referenced her 2008 hit Chinese in the caption which read 'We won’t be getting a Chinese, my sisters cooking'

Lily shared an insight into her fitness regime as she hit the gym in Brooklyn last week

Lily took to Instagram to share a series of photos from her personal training session and declared she is 'back on my bulls**t'

The Smile hitmaker showed off her figure in a tiny brown sports bra and leggings as she was put through her paces

The singer also posed this week in £830 red and blue floral towels

Lily showed off her natural beauty as she crouched down in the D.Porthault patterned towel which cost £415 each.

The Apples hitmaker recently returned from a trip to Paris with her children, followed by a romantic holiday in India with husband David Harbour.

It comes after her and actor husband shut down split rumours when they put on a united front at the Stranger Things: The First Shadow press night.

Lily and David have been married since they tied the knot in Las Vegas in September 2020 .

The couple also co- parent Allen's two daughters Ethel, 12, and Marnie, 11.

She shares her two children with her ex-husband Sam Cooper — with whom she was married from 2011 to 2018.

The songstress and husband David Harbour, 48, recently shut down split rumors and enjoyed the holidays last month in India

David spoke to People in November 2023 about how his marriage with Lily is 'so great'.

There had been previous rumours of 'marital woes' after fans noticed Lily unfollowed her husband on social media.

David addressed the speculation at the time and admitted that the SAG-AFTRA strikes affected their relationship because he was no longer working.

Since then, however, he said that their marriage has only strengthened as they 'grow closer and closer'.

'Let me tell you, my wife likes when I go to work because it's nice for her to have her life and me to have my life and for us not to just annoy each other by being around al the time,' he explained.