Over-55s considering taking cash from their homes with equity release will now be required to discuss their day-to-day spending before being handed a mortgage.

The Equity Release Council, the standards body for the industry, has updated its code of conduct to require its member advisers to cover income and expenditure as part of the advice process.

It comes as rates on the retirement loans have increased to more than 9 per cent in some cases, mirroring wider increases in the cost of mortgage borrowing across the whole market.

Taking advice: Those looking at equity release are now required to be quizzed about their day-to-day spending in retirement

Getting advice is a legal requirement of taking out an equity release mortgage.

The majority of equity release lenders, as well as many advisory firms, are members of the Equity Release Council which means they agree to abide by its rules and statement of principles.

While monthly repayments aren't required on equity release mortgages, it is still important for homeowners to consider how borrowing money against their home would affect their finances in retirement.

Equity release can affect entitlement to certain state benefits, as well as what someone will pay for care if they need it. It can also affect the inheritance they are able to leave behind for their family.

The Equity Release Council said income and expenditure was already discussed during the advice process in many cases, but this would formalise the requirement and make sure it was 'consistently delivered'.

The updated code also includes more protection for borrowers with mandatory payment lifetime mortgages, where homeowners agree to make repayments until they reach a certain age. The changes will be in place from March.

Equity release loans, also known as lifetime mortgages, are where homeowners aged over 55 get a tax-free loan worth up to 60 per cent of their home's value, while still remaining the sole owner.

It does not need to be paid back until the last borrower dies or goes in to long-term care, and is usually settled from the sale of the home or from their wider estate.

This means that the borrower's income and outgoings are not assessed in the same way that they would be if they were applying for a standard repayment mortgage.

Interest will accumulate on the outstanding balance every month, and be added to the overall loan amount so it will increase over time.

While monthly repayments are not usually mandatory, some plans allow borrowers to choose to make them voluntarily in order to keep the interest they owe down.

For those planning to make regular payments during retirement, discussing income and outgoings would be even more important.

Later this year, the council will undertake a wider review of its standards.

Michelle Highman, chair of the Equity Release Council's standards committee, said: 'The Council's standards have been vital to the development of a vibrant market, but it is important that we regularly review them and consider how we best serve customers as well as support innovation within this sector.

'The Council is therefore undertaking a thorough review in 2024 with input from members, stakeholders, and other interested parties.

'The evolution of our standards is key to helping the market continue to grow and ensure that the diverse customers who choose to access their housing equity can do so with confidence.'

Retirement fund: Equity release loans are where homeowners aged over 55 get a tax-free loan worth up to 60% of their home's value, while still remaining the sole owner

Andrew Morris, senior equity release advisor at Age Partnership+, added: 'Although most equity release plans aren’t affordability assessed, at Age Partnership, we have long believed that a robust conversation around income and expenditure is critical.

'Discussing income and outgoings helps customers to see whether equity release is the right for them, and if it is, helps them to ensure that the level of borrowing is appropriate.

'As well as looking at their current situation, it is also important to look at their future income and outgoings. This forward planning helps to identify any future needs.

'These include, what would happen if a customer stopped working, or for joint parties, what would be the financial situation if one passed away.'

'If there is spare income then a personal loan, a standard mortgage, or an interest-only mortgage, may be a better option.'

What is happening to equity release rates?

Equity release rates have risen in the past year or so along with mainstream mortgages, so borrowers taking out the plans today are paying more interest than they would have pre-2022.

Interest rates on equity release products are higher than on mainstream mortgages, and currently range between about 6.5 and 9 per cent.

You can research the cost of equity release plans and interest rates using This is Money and Age Partnership+'s comparison tool.

When browsing rates, the APR shows the annual cost of borrowing including additional costs, and the AER – annual equivalent rate – shows the overall cost of borrowing when the interest is compounded each year.

It is a good idea to opt for a plan where the interest rate is fixed for the life of the loan, as this gives you certainty about the amount you owe.

If the rate on a loan is variable, make sure it has a cap and that you would be able to pay that increased amount.