Kanye West today sparked alarm after appearing to sport a growth on the centre of his upper lip.

The lump comes just weeks after the controversial rapper underwent experimental dental surgery to get $850k (£670k) titanium dentures installed.

In an Instagram story, Ye filmed himself walking through an airport with wife Bianca Censori, 29.

As well as flashing his Bond villain-esque teeth, social media users spotted a 'bubble' lump on his top lip. Fans questioned what was 'wrong' with West's lip.

Although unwilling to speculate, experts today explained that similar-shaped lumps can be triggered by an allergic reaction or herpes (HSV). Others suggested that the titanium implants themselves could be to blame.

The controversial rapper last month showed off his blingy new teeth, allegedly replacing them all with $850k (£670k) titanium dentures. In an Instagram story Ye pointed the camera at himself flashing his metallic teeth and a visible 'bubble' lump on his top lip, as he walked through an airport with his wife, Bianca Censori , 29

Social media erupted at the sight of the growth, quickly speculating what could have caused it. In the clip posted on Monday, t he Grammy-winning musical artist revealed the lump as he addressed backlash from social media users who said he was giving his Australian model wife too much space on his social media page

While painful or uncomfortable, often they will resolve itself naturally within days.

Dr Praveen Sharma, scientific advisor to the British Dental Association and a restorative dentistry specialist, told MailOnline: 'One of the commonest causes of lumps on the lips is being infected with herpes.

'These can also arise from physical trauma or an allergic reaction.

'Sometimes these are painful or uncomfortable but are often harmless and will clear up without treatment.

'Blocked minor salivary glands in the lip can also appear as swellings that can sometimes change size during mealtimes when more saliva is produced.'

HSV type one, carried up by up to 70 per cent of people, is typically transmitted by oral-to-oral contact. It typically causes cold sores and mouth blisters.

Type two, which is less common, is mainly sexually transmitted and usually causes genital herpes.

Dr Sharma added: 'If the lump persists for more than two to three weeks, or you are concerned, have it checked out by your dentist to rule out cancer.

'Common risk factors for lip cancer include prolonged sun exposure, heavy alcohol intake, and tobacco use.

'As for all cancers, the earlier the condition is diagnosed the better the outlook.'

Karen Coates, registered dental nurse and Oral Health Foundation spokesperson, said: 'One of the possible causes of a lump like this on the lip is some form of dental trauma.

'This could happen in a variety of ways including pressure from trapping the lip, an old piercing, a sports injury or injury from forms of snap-on teeth moving in the mouth.

'Occasionally, implant-supported dentures can move, causing trauma to the surrounding tissues.'

In the clip posted on Monday, the Grammy-winning musical artist revealed the lump as he addressed backlash from social media users who said he was giving his Australian model wife too much space on his social media page.

An excess on West's top lip has been visible in many photos over the years.

But the growth spotted on his Instagram story appears plumper than previously captured.

Dr Emma Wedgeworth, a consultant dermatologist and spokesperson for the British Skin Foundation, told MailOnline recent dental work can trigger growths.

Pyogenic granulomas — small, raised, and red bumps on the skin — 'can occur after dental work', she said.

Equally, mucoceles, or harmless swollen cysts, 'are common and are small smooth swellings that result from trauma to salivary glands', she said.

An excess on his top lip, has been visible in many of Kanye's photos over the years. But the growth spotted on his Instagram story appears plumper than previously captured. Pictured, Kanye attending the Los Angeles Mission's Annual Thanksgiving event in November 2021

Just weeks ago Kanye flashed his new metallic smile in an Instagram post, in which he likened his look to the iconic James Bond villain Jaws. Yet sources close to the star say the 46-year-old actually hasn't 'replaced' his teeth and his flashy titanium grin is merely an expansive dental prosthetic

In an exclusive photo obtained by DailyMail.com, West's lavish new dentures - which a source revealed are 'more expensive than diamonds' - were shown

'While it's impossible to give a definitive diagnosis, there are a lot of possibilities for lesions we see on lips,' she added.

'Any unusual lump on the lips or in the mouth should be assessed by a dentist or a doctor to ensure it’s nothing to worry about.'

Just weeks ago West flashed his new metallic smile in an Instagram post, in which he likened his look to the iconic James Bond villain Jaws.

Grills/grillz are decorative covers for teeth, typically made of a gold or other precious metal base which can then be left plain or encrusted in jewels like diamonds.

While most examples are covers that can be snapped on and off the tooth/teeth as needed, some are adhered directly with a special dental adhesive.

But the flashy look isn't risk free.

Dentists sat the devices carry the risk of becoming a 'plaque-trap', while a build-up of bacteria could lead to 'tooth decay, smelly breath, and gum disease'.

Glue used to insert the 'grills' could contain harmful chemicals that will cause further damage to teeth and gums, they also caution.