Rasmus Hojlund scored an 'outrageous' goal with his chest at Luton Town

Manchester United striker Rasmus Hojlund has been hailed for his 'outrageous' finish with his chest to put the visitors two goals up at Luton Town.

The Dane had put Man United calmly in front after just 36 seconds following an error from the hosts, but the second was a controlled move to direct a ball from Alejandro Garnacho into the back of the net with his chest.

On Sky Sports commentary, Gary Neville said the Dane had done 'really well' to control the ball in such an instinctive way into the back of the net.

He added: 'The second goal has been coming. Since his first goal, United haven't been letting up.

'That's not a lucky deflection, I think he turns his chest deliberately there.

Rasmus Hojlund has been hailed for an 'outrageous' goal scored with his chest at Luton Town

The Manchester United striker was in the right place to direct Alejandro Garnacho's ball home

Hojlund AGAIN! 🤯 pic.twitter.com/Y0OzGfxLyu — Sky Sports Premier League (@SkySportsPL) February 18, 2024

Your browser does not support iframes.

'That's a really difficult skill to pull off. He's raw, he's unpolished but that's a fantastic goal from Hojlund.'

Fans on social media were similarly quick to hail the 'outrageous' finish, which came after just seven minutes.

One wrote on X (formerly Twitter): 'Rasmus Hojlund just scored with his chest. This guy is not normal.'

Another noted: 'That was actually outrageous from Hojlund to react that quickly and chest the ball towards goal and in. Manchester United cruising.'

'That is a ridiculous, and completely intentional, finish from Rasmus Hojlund. Elite stuff that!' wrote a third X user, whilst another simply said: 'Hojlund that's ridiculous strikers instinct take a bow'.

Fans on X (fka Twitter) were quick to hail the 'ridiculous' move, and Hojlund's quick instinct

While Hojlund's brace had put the visitors comfortably in control in the opening ten minutes, Luton's Carlton Morris was able to score a 14th-minute header to reduce the deficit.

After three goals in the first quarter of an hour, the goalscoring ceased, and Manchester United won 2-1.

Hojlund's early goal made him the youngest player to score in six consecutive Premier League games, 14 days after his 21st birthday.

He surpassed Joe Willock's previous record of 21 years and 272 days old by rounding the goalkeeper and slotting home after Amari'i Bell's error.

Hojlund started his goalscoring streak on Boxing Day, scoring the winner when the Red Devils beat Aston Villa 3-2 at Old Trafford.

He also found the back of the net against Tottenham, Wolves and West Ham before putting the Red Devils 1-0 up in their 2-1 victory over Aston Villa last week.

Hojlund became the youngest player to score in six consecutive Premier League games

Harry Styles watched on from the stands as Manchester United took on Luton on Sunday

Sunday's match at Kenilworth Road was attended by pop star Harry Styles, who was spotted wearing Manchester United kit during his time with One Direction.

Styles, who also shares an unlikely friendship with Rio Ferdinand, met the Sky Sports team in the gantry prior to kick-off.

The 30-year-old also enjoyed a kickabout with Man United legend David Beckham and his son Brooklyn in 2015.