This was Liverpool’s best impression of a buzz saw — sharp all around as each of Mohamed Salah, Darwin Nunez, Diogo Jota, Luis Diaz and Cody Gakpo scored or assisted in a victory which kept them top of the Premier League table.

But Jurgen Klopp left Brentford on Saturday ruing the fact he finished a few blades short of a full set, losing Curtis Jones then Jota then Nunez midway through this match — three injuries which threaten their participation in Sunday’s Carabao Cup final against Chelsea and perhaps the Reds’ title push if the diagnoses are not positive.

Medical tests will be conducted this week to see how many matches this talented trio may miss, if any. Jones was spotted leaving the Gtech Community Stadium on crutches with his left foot in a protective boot, Jota’s knee injury was described as ‘worse’ in the aftermath, while Nunez’s issue is unknown, the striker having told Klopp at half-time that he felt something was wrong.

Liverpool wait in the hope of positive news, though it put a dampener on a day when they should have been celebrating Salah’s comeback.

While Manchester City are hailing the return of Erling Haaland — even though he had an off-day on Saturday — and Kevin De Bruyne, hopeful that the pair will carry their team towards yet another title, Liverpool have cause for concern even if Salah is scoring again.

Diogo Jota went off injured during Liverpool's 4-1 victory against Brentford on Saturday

Curtis Jones and Darwin Nunez also suffered injuries as Liverpool's list of absentees grows

Your browser does not support iframes.

Alisson was absent from this trip to London, along with Trent Alexander-Arnold, Joel Matip, Dominik Szoboszlai and more. The traffic in their treatment room was already worrying enough without adding to it.

Liverpool do not want injuries to trip them up. Not when it is Klopp’s last dance. Not when they are involved in four competitions, including such a delicate title race. Not when the Premier League’s fixture list is as relentless as it is, with Luton visiting Anfield on Wednesday.

‘We have problems, probably we don’t know exactly how big they are, but we have them,’ Klopp conceded. ‘But as long as we have 11 players, we will go for it.’

Jota and Nunez were behind Liverpool’s opener — a wonderful assist followed by an even better finish as the ball looped over Brentford goalkeeper Mark Flekken. That got them on their way to the win, with Alexis Mac Allister getting their second, Salah the third and Gakpo the fourth.

The bonus for Liverpool is the reliability of Wataru Endo. He cost £16.2million when they signed him from Stuttgart in August — just 14.6 per cent of the £111m Liverpool had agreed to pay Brighton for Moises Caicedo six days prior.

Chelsea’s cheeky swoop meant Caicedo wound up at Stamford Bridge instead and there was the usual fury on social media from critics who, you suspect, have never seen a minute of Bundesliga football, one writing: ‘Wataru Endo. More like what are we doing?’

Yet Saturday’s performance told you what a shrewd move this was. The fact the 31-year-old is a walking yellow card — he was handed his seventh caution in the Premier League here — only emphasises his warrior spirit.

Wataru Endo was hugely impressive for Liverpool as they picked up three points on Saturday

He was precise in his passing, tenacious in his tackling and creative in sparking counter-attacks as he prepares for a showdown with Caicedo in the Carabao Cup final.

Brentford did not help themselves in this defeat. Their defending was as bad as we have seen under Thomas Frank and Liverpool took full advantage.

Yet Klopp was still left with regrets. Three, to be exact. ‘It came at a cost,’ he said of this win. For how costly it will prove, he will have to wait for word from his medical department in the coming days.