Frequent flyer Gilbert Ott has revealed seven travel hacks you need to know

I'm Gilbert Ott, frequent flier and Founder of travel site godsavethepoints.com and I've reached a point in travel where I wish I didn't know many of the things I do.

Oh how I sometimes yearn to be an oblivious person going through the airport, or getting ready to iron my shirt in a hotel, blissfully unaware of what that iron is used for.

Once you know, you can't un-know and that can be as helpful as it is annoying. Here are the travel hacks and tips you need to know, even if you don't want to...

Dryer sheets are the best luggage hack

There's a sinking feeling when you open a suitcase and it doesn't quite smell minty fresh. A great way to prevent worn clothes from ruining the rest is to pop dryer sheets in your luggage. These keep an enviable freshness going before and after the trip.

Bring tape for annoying lights

Now, duct tape might appear slightly weird and sinister, but having a bit of standard tape can be a game changer in hotels where there are alarm clocks, TV lights and other electronics, which can bring unwanted light to a room. Just pop a piece of tape over anything that annoys you and it's all sorted.

Don't use the hotel iron

Pilots and others notoriously use irons to reheat pizza and other food during layovers, says Gilbert

This isn't to say ever, but it's worth inspecting the hotel iron, or testing it on a non-external-facing garment before trusting your soon-to-be crisp white shirt. Why? Pilots and others notoriously use irons to reheat pizza and other food during layovers.

Use the shower to steam your clothes

A clothes peg or clip can do a whole lot of good in a hotel room, particularly when you need rest Gilbert Ott, Founder of travel site godsavethepoints.com

Now that you know irons can't always be trusted, there's an alternative. Steaming your clothes can be fairly easy while you get ready for the day. Placing garments on the towel rack or behind the bathroom door while you shower can be the perfect way to loosen up wrinkles and freshen up a piece for the day.

Roll your clothes to save space and avoid creases

Rolling your clothes is by far the most effective way to save space when packing. Try it and you'll be convinced. Not only that, it prevents creases, allowing for less hassle when you arrive.

Take advantage of same-day delivery

Particularly in places like the U.S, where ShopRunner, Task Rabbit, DoorDash and Amazon Prime exist, it's easy to get everything from pharmacy items to clothes and food delivered, often even on the same day. If you're tight on space or want to avoid a checked bag, think about what you can get delivered to your door on day one!

Clips for curtains

A clothes peg or clip can do a whole lot of good in a hotel room, particularly when you need rest. Many hotels have invested in lovely curtains to jazz up the ambience, but they often miss the mark on blocking all the light. Bringing a clothes peg or clip can help you clip the blinds to the edge and ensure no pesky light sneaks through.

Gilbert can be found tweeting at @godsavethepoint.