SHOPPING – Contains affiliated content. Products featured in this Mail Best article are selected by our shopping writers. If you make a purchase using links on this page, Dailymail.co.uk will earn an affiliate commission. Click here for more information.

House proud shoppers are saying goodbye to soaking wet mops and streamlining their cleaning routine with one steam mop. And it works on carpets, too.

Amazon shoppers are snapping up the top-rated Vileda Steam Mop, currently on sale for just £60.99 - the lowest price we've seen since Prime Day.

Vileda Steam Mop Plus Snap up the Vileda Steam Mop Plus today with a huge saving of 39 per cent off - that's the lowest price since Prime Day. Heating up in just 15 seconds to hygienically remove dirt and grime, and with variable steam settings, it can be used on hard floors and carpets for a deep clean in minutes. Killing 99.9 per cent of bacteria on your floor without the need for any cleaning chemicals, it's loved by shoppers thanks to its ease and speed. Shop

Users have repeatedly sung its praises on Amazon, raving about how the Vileda Steam Mop Plus heats up in just 15 seconds and leaves floors dry in five minutes

Heating up in just 15 seconds and killing up to 99.9 per cent of bacteria with just water, this mop, which is now 39 per cent off, makes cleaning without chemicals easy.

Traditional mops can leave floors soaked, so for a smarter solution for effortless and efficient floor cleaning, scores of time-pressed shoppers have turned to Vileda.

Blasting off grime in minutes using just the power of steam and leaving your floors looking 'like new', the Vileda Steam Mop Plus makes pushing a water-soaked mop back and forth a thing of the past.

Customers like the speed, value, ease of use and weight of the steam cleaner, with one explaining: 'Extra large pad on head makes cleaning a breeze. Also it doesn’t soak the floor with water so the floor dries quickly.'

The appliance has become a firm favourite with shoppers looking for an easy way to clean wood, carpet or tile floors.

From grubby kitchen and bathroom floors to freshening up carpets, the Vileda Steam Mop Plus uses steam rather than chemicals, so it can be used all around your home.

One impressed user wrote: 'Great mop for indoors, especially on the laminate flooring and tiles. This has taken out stains on my tiles in the kitchen and works wonders in making everything look new.'

It's quick, too, perfect for if you have guests popping over and you want a refresh. Key features include a super rapid 15-second heat-up time, an ergonomic handle to increase comfort and viewable water levels through the window on the tank.

The clever triangle-shaped microfibre cloth head allows you to get into all those hard-to-reach corners while ensuring you do not leave any streaks and marks behind

If you're sick of filling and storing a heavy mop bucket and trailing grimy water around your home, the Vileda Steam Mop could be the speedy, sanitary cleaning experience you've been missing.

'Great little mop here,' wrote one shopper. 'Heats up in about 10 seconds. Just for context I get the living room, dining room and kitchen done in one filling, each are the size of a UK standard double bedroom.'

Another agreed, adding: 'This is a great steam mop - it has three settings max, med & min -so it suits all our floorings. We have laminate & ceramic tiles. I use the min setting on the laminate and it dries very quickly. It’s easy to manoeuvre and gets to temperature quickly.'

Shoppers have also praised the clever triangle-shaped microfibre cloth head, which allows you to get into all those hard-to-reach corners while ensuring to not leave any streaks and marks behind.