Kourtney Kardashian showed her support for her husband Travis Barker as she watched his band blink-182 perform in Sydney on Saturday night.

The media personality, 44, and her children joined Travis, 48, for a trip Down Under while his pop-punk band tour Australia for the first time in seven years.

While Travis travelled to Perth, Adelaide and Melbourne with his bandmates Tom DeLonge and Mark Hoppus, Kourtney remained in Sydney with her children.

But as the band returned to Sydney for two gigs, Kourtney showed her support as she took her kids Penelope, 11, and Reign, nine - who she shares with her ex Scott Disick - to watch the show.

The Kardashians star - who recently welcomed a baby boy Rocky, three months, with Travis - took to her Instagram Stories to give an insight into the night out.

Kourtney Kardashian showed her support for her husband Travis Barker as she watched his band blink-182 perform in Sydney on Saturday night

The American media personality, 44, took to her Instagram Stories to give an insight into the night out as she shared a snap backstage visiting drummer Travis' dressing room

She shared a snap of Travis' dressing room backstage as she spent time with the drummer before he took to the stage at the Qudos Bank Arena.

Kourtney also shared a picture of her son Reign grinning widely as he posed in front of a huge poster of Travis and his blink-182 bandmates.

It marked blink-182's second show in Sydney, after they also took to the stage in the city on Friday night, days after kicking off their Australian tour in Perth.

The band will next jet off to Brisbane for more shows, before returning to Sydney and Melbourne for newly-added dates at the end of the month.

During a recent show, Travis' bandmates Tom and Mark boldly slammed one Aussie city on stage.

Kourtney also shared a snap of her son Reign, seven, grinning as he posed in front of a poster of Travis and his blink-182 bandmates. She also took her daughter Penelope, 11, to the show

Travis has already jetted off to Perth, Adelaide and Melbourne to perform with blink-182 as part of their hotly-anticipated tour - and their first Down Under in seven years

The pair took aim at their Perth fans while performing in Adelaide, complaining to the audience about the 'disappointing crowd' in Western Australia.

The moment was shared to TikTok in a 20-second video.

'We had to go to f***ing Perth before coming here!' bassist and vocalist Mark said. 'Get f***ed, mate!'

Guitarist and vocalist Tom chimed: 'They don't caress women there! They don't do s**t! They don't have emotional bonds...'

'They're just thinking about the band Creed, that's all they're doing.'

blink-182 hit out at the 'unenthusiastic' Perth crowd on their first night in the city.

'Mark was roasting the crowd all night saying no one knew the songs,' one TikTok user wrote alongside a video.

The pop-punk band - made up of Travis, Tom DeLonge and Mark Hoppus - will next jet off to Brisbane for more shows, before returning to Sydney and Melbourne for newly-added dates

As well as being busy touring, Travis and Kourtney have also been spending some quality time together while exploring the sights of Sydney (both pictured at Bonditony's)

As well as being busy touring, Travis and Kourtney have also been spending some quality time together while exploring the sights of Sydney.

After spending Valentine's Day apart due to Travis' jam-packed touring schedule, the couple enjoyed a day out at Luna Park with Penelope and Reign.

They have also been spotted down Bondi Beach and Palm Beach as they haven't wasted any time in seeing the very best the city has to offer.

Kourtney and Travis have also brought their infant son Rocky on the trip Down Under, marking their first big international holiday with the baby boy, who was born on November 1.