Charlamagne tha God has called Joe Biden 'an uninspiring candidate' for the 2024 presidential election with 'no main character energy at all' in his latest ripping of the Democratic frontrunner.

The 'Breakfast Club' radio personality, whose real name is Lenard McKelvey, backed Biden in 2020 but has said he won't be endorsing him in 2024.

'He's just an uninspiring candidate. There's nothing about Joe Biden that makes you want to listen to him,' the influential radio presenter told ABC host Jonathan Karl.

'That's why he should be leaning on his Vice President Kamala Harris who is way more charismatic than him.

'He should be leaning on other surrogates like Gavin Newsom or Shapiro in Pennsylvania.'

Charlamagne tha God has called Joe Biden 'an uninspiring candidate' for the 2024 presidential election with 'no main character energy at all'

The 'Breakfast Club' radio personality, whose real name is Lenard McKelvey, backed Biden in 2020 but has said he won't be endorsing him in 2024

Charlamagne said Biden should be 'leaning on his Vice President Kamala Harris who is way more charismatic than him'

'He should be leaning on people who are more inspiring than him, who are more charismatic than him,' Charlamagne added.

'And he should just be, I guess if you want to call it the brains of the operation behind the scenes.

'Like that sounds crazy that we're saying that about a president of the United States of America, but he has no main character energy at all.'

When asked whether he found Biden, 81, uninspiring because of his age, he added: 'I don't think it has anything to do with age.

'I think it has everything to do with him. Donald Trump is, what, four years, three years younger than President Biden.

'But he just comes off a lot more youthful. He comes off, you know, like he has a lot more energy.'

Charlamagne appeared on the campaign trail with Harris in 2019, when she unveiled her mental health plan — something of a personal issue for a radio host who has spoken of his own struggles.

But he's among those who have grown disillusioned with the Biden administration, and he's admitted listeners have given him grief for telling them to support him in 2020.

Last month, Charlamagne called Biden a 'shi**y elected official' and Trump 'the end of democracy as we know it'.

In recent years he's become a thorn in the side of the Biden administration, often criticizing Democrats for not being able to find a different candidate.

Biden 'should be leaning on other surrogates like Gavin Newsom' for the 2024 race according to Charlamagne

Charlamagne tha God has been a frequent critic of the Biden administration since backing them in 2020

While guest hosting the Daily Show in December, Charlamagne said the 'ultimate Christmas gift' would be President Joe Biden dropping out of the 2024 race and pleaded with him not to make the same mistake as former Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.

'Biden is not getting any younger. He’s not going to get any more popular and he is not getting a new running mate. Please, Mr. President, give America the ultimate Christmas gift and a step aside,' he said on the Daily Show.

'I know he thinks he’s got this in the bag but the polls say otherwise. I want Biden stepping in to beat Trump the way I want him stepping in to defend me at a bar fight. I appreciate you caring, but I don’t like our chances.'

In September 2023, he slammed the president for botching LL Cool J's name and using a 'racist' term to refer to him at an event honoring the artist.

Biden messed up the rappers name and then called LL Cool J 'boy' during a speech at a Congressional Black Caucus Foundation dinner.

Charlamagne said, 'He fully understands the word boy in the racial context around a white man referring to a black man, is boy.'

'When somebody uses the word boy to refer to an adult Black man and the speaker is white, that takes on a whole different point in context.'

The word boy, when used by white people to refer to back men, is a historically loaded term which has been used to denote superiority during enslavement and beyond.

In January 2023, Charlamagne and The Breakfast Club co-host DJ Envy claimed Biden needs to be 'tested for dementia' before running in 2024.

In November 2022, on Fox News he criticized Democrats for not having a better candidate for 2024 than Biden, who he said would not be able to energize voters.

He told Fox it was 'sad' that Biden was Democrats' 'safest bet,' and questioned if he was popular enough to beat Donald Trump or Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis.

When asked if he would vote for Biden again, Charlamagne did not commit and instead said voting for Former President Donald Trump would be like voting for the 'antichrist.'

In October 2022, Charlamagne slammed Biden for defending his former crack addict son Hunter after putting 'so many black people in jail for smoking cocaine' instead of getting them 'help' when he was senator.

He gave the president the title of 'Donkey of the Day' in January 2022 when the voting rights bill was killed off and accused the president of not caring about black voting rights.

On an July 2020 radio show, Charlamagne dubbed Biden the 'Donkey of the Day' for calling Donald trump the 'first racist president.'

'Saying Donald Trump is the first racist president is a lie, ok? It's a lie that relinquishes America of all responsibility of its bigotry,' he said.

The Breakfast Club host also claimed Biden was making it possible for rapper Kanye West to seem like a 'viable option' for president. He said, 'I really wish Joe Biden would shut the f up forever.'

Following a May 2020 interview with the then presidential candidate, Charlamagne condemned Biden's track record with black voters, stating that the former vice president was a 'very intricate' part of the 'systemic racism' that needs to be 'dismantled' with his 1994 crime bill.

During that May 2020 interview, Biden concluded with saying, 'If you have a problem figuring out whether you're for me or Trump, then you ain't black.'