Zoe Saldaña is on vacation with her husband of 11 years Marco Perego, 44, and their three sons, twins Cy and Bowie, nine, and Zen, seven.

The Avatar actress, 45, shared a video clip on Instagram on Friday highlighting moments from their family trip.

The video opens with Zoe looking like she just got out of bed and quickly cuts to the parents cheering and then to selfies of Zoe – who packed on the PDA at dinner in Malibu with her husband last month – with her three lookalike sons.

The Instagram post is set to Frank Ocean's Lost and at points shows Zoe and her kids enjoying sunrise on the beach and travelling to their next destination via airplane.

The Guardians of the Galaxy star captioned the post: 'Lost, lost lost…. In the best places, with the best people. Always lost…. Amen,' and added a string of emojis including a butterfly, sunflower, rainbow, lucky clover, star and clock.

Zoe Saldaña is on vacation with her husband of 11 years Marco Perego, 44, and their three kids, twins Cy and Bowie, nine, and Zen, seven

The Avatar actress, 45, shared a video clip on Instagram on Friday highlighting moments from their family trip

It truly was a family vacation as the From Scratch star's sisters Cisely Saldaña and Mariel Saldaña Nazario, also appeared in Zoe's video with her nieces and nephews.

In October the busy working mom talked about rewarding and challenging being a parent is.

'We are here to set very big tones for them in life on how to be, how to react, how to regulate, how to repair, how to heal, how to stand up for yourself,' she told People.

'So they're going to be constantly mirroring what you do, knowing that you're being observed at all times. It definitely makes you a lot more mindful than you have ever been in your whole entire life.'

Zoe and her husband are also raising their three boys to respect and honor women and to also embrace their own feminine sides.

'We're very hard on our boys the same way we're hard on women. And boys are encouraged to be strong and to suppress their emotions,' she said.

'And then once you learn to do that so much for so long, you become completely excommunicated from your feelings,' she added.

'We definitely understood the assignments and accepted it knowing that we were raising boys during a time when women's movements are so important,' Saldaña added.

Zoe and Marco recently bought a $17.5 million mansion in Montecito, California.

The Instagram post is set to Frank Ocean 's Lost and at points shows Zoe and her kids enjoying sunrise on the beach and travelling to their next destination via airplane

The Guardians of the Galaxy star captioned the post: 'Lost, lost lost…. In the best places, with the best people. Always lost…. Amen,' and added a string of emojis including a butterfly, sunflower, rainbow, lucky clover, star and clock

Zoe shared several images of her family on the plane

It truly was a family vacation as the From Scratch star's sisters Cisely Saldaña and Mariel Saldaña Nazario, also appeared in Zoe's video with her nieces and nephews

Their neighborhood is also home to Meghan Markle and Prince Harry, Oprah Winfrey and Ellen DeGeneres and Portia de Rossi.

Before moving north to Santa Barbara county, Zoe listed her Beverly Hills mansion for $16.5 million, which is almost double the $8.7 million she paid for it in 2016, per Zillow.

As of this writing, the 6,000 square foot, five bedroom, seven bathroom house is for rent for $47,500 per month.

Not much information is available about her new Montecito digs other than it is a 10,000 square foot house with five bedrooms and eight bathrooms on five acres