The Glazer family are reportedly hopeful of incorporating augmented reality wearables on Manchester United players.

United's American owners are said to be keen on technology that allows supporters to watch games as if from the perspective of their favourite stars thanks to cameras worn on each player's body.

According to a report from ESPN, the concept was championed within the club as a potential source of revenue by former United executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward.

'The big idea, or maybe the big hope, that the Glazers have - and this was driven by Ed Woodward - is the emergence of Augmented Reality,' a source told the US publication.

'The technology is already out there whereby a player could have an AR wearable on his body and a supporter anywhere in the world could pay a small fee to experience a game through the eyes of his favorite player.

The Glazer family are reportedly in favour of utilising augmented reality technology to provide a unique viewing experience for Manchester United fans

The concept, championed by Ed Woodward, would see players wear cameras, allowing supporters to watch the action from their perspective

Your browser does not support iframes.

'Just imagine how much United could generate from their huge global fanbase if supporters were able to pay to be Marcus Rashford or Bruno Fernandes for 90 minutes?'

Though augmented reality has yet to be fully realised in footballing context, players wearing cameras during games to offer fans a unique perspective has been trialled in the past.

In July Youri Tielemans made his Aston Villa debut in a pre-season friendly against Newcastle in the United States.

Youri Tielemans wore a bodycam when he made his Aston Villa debut against Newcastle in pre-season

However plans for AR implementation would require IFAB to change rule prohibiting players from wearing devices in competitive games

Throughout his involvement the midfielder's actions were recorded on a bodycam worn under his shirt, with footage later shared by the Premier League providing a fascinating insight of the game.

However, despite positive reviews from players chosen to trial the technology in pre-season, a larger-scale implementation is unlikely to be rolled out anytime soon.

IFAB laws currently prohibit the use of bodycams in competitive football, though trials have been carried out on their use by referees to deter bad behaviour at the grassroots level.