It’s absolutely the biggest thing in health spas, darling – and designed to care for mistreated elephants.

One such beneficiary of the giant jet pool is Phoolkali, who looks at peace with the world as she is soothed by cooling water.

The 67-year-old, whose name means flowerbud, is blind in one eye and weak in her legs after decades spent begging for her previous owners in the streets.

She is among the hundreds of animal inpatients at India’s first elephant hospital in Agra, near the Taj Mahal.

The complex boasts this large hydrotherapy pool to ease aches and pains, and the latest mobile X-ray equipment, ultrasound and laser therapy is put to good use by experienced vets to diagnose and treat fractures and wounds.

One beneficiary of the giant jet pool is Phoolkali, who looks at peace with the world as she is soothed by cooling water

The 67-year-old, whose name means flowerbud, is blind in one eye and weak in her legs after decades spent begging for her previous owners in the streets

She is among the hundreds of animal inpatients at India ’s first elephant hospital in Agra, near the Taj Mahal

The complex boasts this large hydrotherapy pool to ease aches and pains, and the latest mobile X-ray equipment, ultrasound and laser therapy is put to good use by experienced vets to diagnose and treat fractures and wounds

‘The elephants love the pool so much. You can actually see tears of joy in their eyes after years of cruelty,’ said Kartick Satyanarayan, chief executive of the Wildlife SOS charity, which runs the hospital with the help of donations from the UK.

The charity was formed in 1995, when group of individuals determined to conserve India’s rich natural heritage began operating a rescue centre out of a small garage in New Delhi.

According to the charity's website, their goal was simple – to aid wildlife in distress and expand India’s core value of the right to freedom and dignity to the realm of animals.

Today, the charity has evolved into actively protecting India’s precious wildlife, conserving habitats, studying biodiversity, conducting research, and creating alternative and sustainable livelihoods for erstwhile poacher communities, or communities dependent on wildlife for sustenance.

It is the largest wildlife rescue organisation in India and run 12 wildlife rescue centres all over the country.