When it comes to the art of attracting discerning winter sports enthusiasts, Le Chabichou Hotel & Spa in the heart of France's glamorous Courchevel 1850 ski resort is a practised hand – it's been a notably enticing mountainside haven for decades.

The property was bought in 1963 by husband-and-wife team Michel and Maryse Rochedy when it was a traditional Savoyard chalet with nine bedrooms.

Maryse ran the accommodation side of the operation, Michel did the cooking in the restaurant. And what cooking.

In a first for Courchevel, Le Chabichou restaurant was awarded a Michelin star in 1979, then a second in 1984, earning Michel the nickname of 'The Bocuse of the Alps', after legendary Lyon-based chef Paul Bocuse (more about the hotel's incredible eatery later).

Meanwhile, the number of rooms swelled, the facilities burgeoned, and the hotel's popularity surged, with notable personalities such as music producer Eddie Barclay, actress Brigitte Bardot and French president Valery Giscard d'Estaing crossing the threshold in the 60s and 70s.

MailOnline Travel's Ted Thornhill checked into Le Chabichou Hotel & Spa in the heart of France 's glamorous Courchevel 1850 ski resort

Le Chabichou was bought in 1963 by husband-and-wife team Michel and Maryse Rochedy when it was a traditional Savoyard chalet with nine bedrooms

The establishment became a member of the prestigious Relais & Chateaux portfolio in 2012 and Lyon-based group Lavorel Hotels has been running the property since 2018.

I checked in at the tail-end of the 2022/23 season with my partner and daughter. My assessment? The five-star ski-in/ski-out property is at the peak of its magnetic powers.

With its striking white facade, Le Chabichou is one of the most eye-catching hotels in Courchevel – and in this regard it's up against decidedly stiff competition.

Inside, it's Chabi-chic throughout, with lashings of luxury. Rustic raw timber and plush upholstery abound. And the interiors are patrolled by constantly chirpy and welcoming staff.

Our two-room family suite is an absolute delight. There's a small balcony and insanely splendid views across the adjacent blue run to the resort and peaks beyond, we parents love our epic double bed with its tartan headboard, and the little one is thrilled to have her own room opposite, beyond a small living room area.

In a first for Courchevel, Le Chabichou restaurant was awarded a Michelin star in 1979, then a second in 1984

Ted writes: 'Inside, it's Chabi-chic throughout, with lashings of luxury. Rustic raw timber and plush upholstery abound.' Pictured above is Le Sidonie bar

The hotel features a cute kids club, explains Ted - 'and the interiors are patrolled by constantly chirpy and welcoming staff'

The bathroom, meanwhile, with its marble-effect tiling, huge walk-in rain shower and jet-black fittings, adds a splash of sophistication.

Just along the corridor is a cute kids club and on the bottom floor a spa and swimming pool with so many features it almost feels like a water park.

As well as a main pool there are multiple zones and mini pools where bubbles can be activated, a 'walking canal' that loops around one end where you walk against the current, plus a salt room, sauna and steam room – and the chance to pull a cold bucket of water over your head for extra invigoration.

On the bottom floor, explains Ted, is 'a spa and swimming pool with so many features it almost feels like a water park'. He adds: 'As well as a main pool there are multiple zones and mini pools where bubbles can be activated, a "walking canal" that loops around one end where you walk against the current, plus a salt room, sauna and steam room'

You'll also find the well-equipped ski shop in the lower echelons – complete with very helpful staff.

The crowning glory of the hotel, however, is arguably the two-Michelin-starred Chabichou restaurant, now run by chef Stéphane Buron.

Here we are treated to a nine-course, eye-popping tour de force of culinary wizardry that consistently astounds, with dishes served in delightfully imaginative ways - doubling as art at times - and all accompanied by top-level wine.

The highly knowledgeable staff who exude warmth and humour are the icing on the cake.

Pleasingly, the elegant restaurant can be experienced by all the guests – as it's also where breakfast is served.

The food offering is nicely rounded out by Le Sidonie restaurant and Le Sidonie bar.

Ted and his partner dine at two-star Le Chabichou by Stephane Buron. Here their kir-royale-style aperitif made from Bollinger Champagne and sapinette is being prepared

Ted declares that the food at Le Chabichou 'doubles as art'. On the left - '3D-printed' amuse bouche resembling ornate leaves. On the right - wild mushroom tartelette and mushroom cappuccino

Le Chabichou has a 'well-equipped ski shop in the lower echelons – complete with very helpful staff'

Ted declares: '[Le Chabichou] is one of the most dazzling stars in the Courchevel hotel firmament'

The dining in these non-Michelin-star set-ups is more casual but there are opportunities for something a little exotic - for instance 80-euro soft-boiled eggs with caviar for breakfast - and the prices for even run-of-the-mill bites are on the wince-inducing side for most. A croque monsieur in the bar is a whopping 45 euros (£40).

But then, you get what you pay for – and in this instance not only is it a very fine croque monsieur, but one enjoyed in one of the most dazzling stars in the Courchevel hotel firmament.

Here's to the next 50 years.