The 'buy now, pay later' app Klarna has made changes to its financing product used by 90,000 shoppers after a spate of technical issues.

The company says changes to the Financing Account product are unrelated to problems which have presented themselves over the past five weeks, where Klarna said repayments were 'registered but were not displaying in the app in a timely manner'.

It said it had upgraded the financing product with fixed repayments, interest rates and duration terms.

The regulated credit product lets customers spread the cost of expensive purchases like furniture, phones and other tech.

At the beginning of October, customer payments made by direct debit weren't being registered and these were classified as 'missed payments' - which could impact credit ratings.

Klarna says it's aware of the problem and it will be fixed before the next payment date in December.

Users experiencing problems with the Financing Account on Klarna posted on X

Klarna says it's aware of the problem and it will be fixed before the next payment date

The Financing Account lets users spread the cost of expensive purchases over a period of between six and 36 months.

The account works like a credit card, so it can be used for multiple purchases which can be paid off at the same time gradually with interest.

This is different to the 'buy now, pay later' scheme which only applies to one purchase at a time and won't be affected.

Of Klarna's 18million British customers, 0.5 per cent use the Financing Account - totalling around 90,000 people.

Klarna's website says customers can select the 'Financing' option at checkout and choose their preferred timeline and interest rate.

The website also notes that a credit check is performed whenever someone applies to a Financing option.

The first payment is due one month after the store processes the order, and is due monthly on the same date until it is fully repaired.

But at the beginning of October, customer payments using these accounts which were made by direct debit weren't displaying properly.

Although the money left the customers' bank accounts, Klarna's system wasn't linking these to the Financing Account, which made it seem like users were failing to repay the purchases.

Klarna said that a very small number of customers had marks left on their credit file, but these have all now been removed

At the beginning of October, customer payments using these accounts which were made by direct debit weren't being registered, with users frustrated at the problem

One customer who experienced this issue said they informed Klarna but heard nothing back for over two weeks and customer support ignored their messages.

Shawn Smith posted on X: '@Klarna still no reply to my missing payment I made on October 4th.

'This is not good service and customer support ignore my messages as it's with a specialist, but it's been more than three business days now.'

Another user replied and said: 'Same here. I've messaged them twice. They say there's an issue with their payments.

'Would be helpful if they reached out to those affected. I've turned autopay off so I don't get double charged.

'[It better] not affect my credit score as a missed payment or incur charges.'

Another user posted: 'Klarna has taken three payments from my bank, none of which are showing on my Klarna account, and now I’m getting emails of missed payments when I have now overpaid.'