Nicklas Bendtner has opened up on his life in football, attending boozy parties and how he once fell out with his dad over money in a new three-part documentary called Nicklas Bendtner - The Portrait, which will air on ViaPlay on Monday.

The programme also reveals that the centre-forward's wage at Arsenal once skyrocketed form £400-per-week to £10,000-per-week following his successful loan spell at Birmingham City in the early parts of his career.

The 36-year-old retired from professional football in 2020, with the Danish striker ending his career at FC Copenhagen.

He would enjoy a storied 14-year professional career, spending time at Arsenal, Birmingham, Sunderland, Juventus, Wolfsburg and Nottingham Forest.

One of football's great characters, he was given the nickname 'Lord Bendtner' by Arsenal fans and had notably called himself 'one of the best strikers in the world' during his formative years.

Nicklas Bendtner (left) has opened up on his career and life after football in a new three-part documentary

The ex-Arsenal star spoke out on his party lifestyle as well as how he had too much too soon

Bendtner was here pictured on a night out after Arsenal lost to Man United in the semi-final of the Champions League in 2009

Your browser does not support iframes.

He'd join Arsenal in 2004 and subsequently would rise through the academy at London Colney before going out on loan to Birmingham City in 2006.

Bendtner would go on to score 13 goals in 48 appearances for the Blues, impressing so much during his season-long loan at the club that Arsene Wenger opted to up his wages by nearly 75 per cent.

The documentary will be released on February 12, with former Arsenal player Liam Brady stating during the programme: 'The more successful he became, the worse he became.

'He thought he could just party and drink.'

He would go on to score some important goals for Arsenal, with the 2009-10 season perhaps being his best for the club, netting 12 times including one of his best strikes for the Gunners - his goal against Blackburn Rovers at The Emirates.

Speaking on his early years, the centre-forward said: 'When things go as fast as they did for me, there is a golden opportunity to take hold of a young lad and try to put some framework in place.

'But everyone just let me do what suited me. No one said no, no one gave me consequences. That made it difficult. Deep down, I knew I wasn't where I should be.

'When at the same time I have a personality where I want to experience the world - taste it all and try a lot of different things - then it would have been healthy if someone had helped me to reduce it.

'Somehow, I taught myself what made me happy when I was sad.

'But in relation to football, it was perhaps not always the most appropriate things I did.'

Bendtner, who spoke with Mail Sport's Ian Herbert back in 2020 about his extravagant lifestyle and having too much too young. And during the documentary he stated that he had 'let the black wolf inside decide instead of the white one' when it came to life choices during his career.

By the time he had left Arsenal, Bendtner had fallen out of favour, had made some massive claims about his own ability and had struggled on loan at Sunderland and Juventus.

He'd go on to join Copenhagen towards the end of his career, with the forward revealing in 2019 that his agent had told him to accept a quite-unique clause in his contract.

Bendtner revealed his agent had said: 'You must accept that it must be stated in the contract that from now until the New Year you must not drink alcohol and you must not ski and things like that.'

And the Dane offered his take on the clause, stating 'I don't think everyone has it in the contract. Damn legendary.'

The striker also infamously showed off his Paddy Power underwear after scoring during Denmark's 3-2 defeat against Portugal at Euro 2012

Bendtner would go on to make 171 appearances for Arsenal, and would become known as 'Lord Bendtner' among fans

BENDTNER CAREER Arsenal 2005-14: 171 apps, 45 goals Birmingham (loan) 2006-07: 48 apps, 13 goals Sunderland (loan) 2011-12: 28 apps, 8 goals Juventus (loan) 2012-13: 11 apps, 0 goals Wolfsburg 2014-16: 47 apps, 9 goals Nottingham Forest 2016-17: 17 apps, 2 goals Rosenborg 2017-19: 86 apps, 35 goals Copenhagen 2019: 8 apps, 1 goal Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sport/football/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_2 - ->

The Dane was also embroiled in some unsavoury scraps on the field, including one with team-mate Emmanuel Adebayor, with Bendtner also clashing with William Gallas.

More bizarrely, he was also once handed an £80k fine from UEFA after revealing he was wearing a pair of Paddy Power pants during Denmark's 3-2 defeat by Portugal back in 2012 - an incident he has subsequently said he regrets.

Reflecting on his career during the documentary, the former Denmark international also stated that he once fell out with his father, Thomas, over money.

While he explained that he didn't want to go into too much detail on the incident, he added that he should have kept family separate from his business affairs.

His father had worked as his advisor at one point during his career, but Bendtner revealed they once fell out over his jewellery company.

'There are many things in it, because it is an inflamed relationship, but I do not want to go into it in more detail,' he said during the documentary.

'He [Bendtner's father] also declined to be part of the documentary, so out of respect I will keep it more general.

'Looking back, we definitely should have kept family and work roles separate.

'There were no bad intentions behind it.

'We tried to do what we felt was right, but none of us were smart enough to know the difference, or the outcome.'

He continued: 'He was my father, best friend and confidant. I had a fantastic childhood.

'So, a completely fantastic childhood with some fantastic parents who have been very supportive, driving me to football and all that stuff.'

Bendtner once uploaded on Instagram a poster of him holding the Ballon d'Or

Bendtner won 81 caps for Denmark, scoring 30 goals during his international career

He would also spend a season with Nottingham Forest between 2016 and 2017 before returning in 2020

Despite that the former Nottingham Forest striker added during the documentary that he always had a love for football and that the playing field was the only place that he could express himself.

He added: 'For me, football is love. It's the only thing I've really loved doing and it's the only thing that gave me a free space. A place where I belonged.

'As soon as I stepped onto the field, all other problems disappeared. And in the dressing room, I was just part of something bigger than myself.

'I really liked that. But it is difficult to find in the same way elsewhere.'