Hallmark has finally halted the sale of greeting cards featuring grinning chimpanzees, eight years after PETA exposed how the chimps were 'exploited and imprisoned' at the Missouri Primate Foundation.

The announcement was made earlier this month. It means Hallmark has joined other card companies, including American Greetings, and major retailers, such as CVS, Rite Aid, Walgreens, and Walmart in banning the harmful depictions.

PETA held demonstrations near the company's Kansas City headquarters, ran ads and enlisted the help of celebrities, including actress Judy Greer, to shame Hallmark into toeing the line.

According to the animal rights nonprofit, their mission was also supported by tens of thousands of their supporters who wrote letters to Hallmark.

They also claimed that Hallmark faced pressure from drug stores that had stopped selling the controversial cards.

Connor is a chimp that had been one of their star chimps who appeared on several of Hallmark's greeting cards - but they've now been ditched after a PETA pressure campaign

Connor was dressed in costumes and given props during the card company's photo shoots, which infuriated animal rights' activists

Connor is seen smiling on a sofa - but activists insist the exploitation of chimpanzees for greetings cards is no laughing matter

Though consumers were unaware of the abuse and grim conditions these great apes were living in at the Missouri Primate Foundation before PETA shut it down in 2021

Many of the chimpanzees were imprisoned at the facility for more than 20 years

In 2016, the People Ethical Treatment for Animals launched a video of their investigation revealing the horrid conditions the chimps lived in titled: 'Hallmark profits from abused chimpanzees.'

Investigators showed images of the chimps being kept in tiny cages that were strewn with feces and trash at the facility.

PETA described The Missouri Primate Foundation as a 'ground zero in the United States for the cruel trade in chimpanzees as primate 'pets' and for the purposes of entertainment.'

One of the sixteen chimpanzees imprisoned at the facility was a chimp named Connor, who had been part of the Hallmark photo shoots since infancy. He languished at the facility until he was rescued by the animal rights organization.

The chimp's toothy smile and silly poses were prominently featured on several Hallmark cards. In some pictures he is seen holding a prop, in other photos he is dressed in a costume.

But the way he was treated was no laughing matter, PETA said.

According to animal rights outfit, the cards were sold in more than 40,000 stores nationwide- but consumers who purchased them were unaware Connor was being warehoused in a cage where he was subjected to roach and fly infestations.

In the video, the chimps were seen distressed as dogs roamed freely barking at the animals. Many of the chimpanzees pulled their own hair out in psychological distress, the group claimed.

Another chimp named Tammy, who had been used for breeding and lived at the Missouri Primate Foundation for over 20 years, had been abused.

An eyewitness told PETA that when her babies were taken away from her, Tammy would scream, tear her cage apart, and refuse to eat for days.

A chimpanzee is pictured at the Missouri Primate Foundation with a chain around its neck

The animals were kept in tiny cages that had fly and roach infestations and trash and feces

Sixteen chimpanzees lived at the facility - many were born there and bred there - before the were rescued by PETA and relocated to an animal sanctuary in Florida. One of those sanctuaries is Save the Chimps

The trademark toothy smile that Connor was known for that appeared on many cards in celebration of birthdays, holidays, was not an expression of delight, PETA claimed, but a grimace indicating fear and stress.

'The clownish images of chimpanzees dressed in costumes and displaying a 'fear grimace,' which the public is fooled into mistaking for a grin, impede conservation efforts by leading consumers to believe that the species is thriving rather than endangered,' the animal rights agency said.

A grave concern of the group was that the images depicted was driving the black-market demand for the chimpanzees as 'pets' that they claimed was a main threat to wild populations.

One of those chimps was Travis, who was born at the Missouri Primate Foundation.

Travis was sold to be someone's pet but was later killed after he escaped from his cage and violently attacked a Connecticut woman called Charla Nash, ripping her face and hands off.

That tragic incident made international headlines, with Nash subsequently receiving a successful face transplant and unsuccessful hands transplant.

During Connor's last Hallmark photo shoot, PETA said that he reportedly became so agitated that he bit his trainer, overturned tables, and tried to attack other people on set.

In 2021, five years after their expose, Connor, along with many of the other chimps were rescued and relocated to an animal sanctuary, and the Missouri Primate Foundation was shut down for good.

One of the sanctuaries was Save the Chimps, one of the largest chimpanzee sanctuaries in the world located in Fort Pierce, Florida. There, the animals roam free, climb, and are treated humanely.

Primatologist and PETA Foundation Director of Captive Animal Welfare Debbie Metzler said 'PETA is celebrating this victory for chimpanzees, who should never be exploited as models or props.'

'Hallmark's decision to stop mocking endangered great apes acknowledges that portrayals hold power, and for chimpanzees threatened with extinction, it can be a matter of life or death,' she further stated.

DailyMail.com has contacted Hallmark for comment.