The Bachelor star-turned-food influencer Matt James has gushed over Japanese McDonald's as he showcased the impressive array of 'delicious' dishes available at the chain.

The 32-year-old took to TikTok earlier this week to share insights from his trip to the fast food restaurant in Japan alongside girlfriend Rachael Kirkconnell - who won the popular reality show.

The couple shared their favorite picks including the Godzilla burgers, Shaka-Shaka chicken and butterscotch apple pie.

And dozens of other foodies rushed to the comments to share their own findings.

The Bachelor star turned food influencer Matt James has gushed over Japanese McDonald's as he showcased the impressive array of 'delicious' dishes available at the chain

He and girlfriend Rachael Kirkconnell shared their favorite picks including the Godzilla burgers, Shaka-Shaka chicken and butterscotch apple pie

The first item that the star chowed down on was a cheese teriyaki Godzilla burger (pictured) as he declared: 'This bun is so soft'

He went on to try the spicy beef and potato offering (left) before moving on to the pepper chicken burger (right)

In the clip, which has so far been viewed more than 312,000 times, Matt began by revealing some stark differences between McDonald's in the US and Japan.

'Japanese McDonald's stay open 24 hours and seat over 200 people,' he explained before tackling the menu.

The first item that the star chowed down on was a cheese teriyaki Godzilla burger as he declared: 'This bun is so soft.'

He continued: 'It tastes like a sausage biscuit. It kind of looks like a sausage biscuit, too. Amazing.'

The second variation he tried was the spicy beef and potato offering.

Matt dished: 'This is my favorite one. Feels like a Popeye spicy chicken sandwich.'

Rachael, 27, then also wanted in on the action as she turned the camera on herself and took a bite.

'The sauce. That hash brown. That's a game hanger,' she triumphantly declared.

The duo then turned their attention to the chain's Shaka Shaka Chicken (left) as well as the butterscotch apple pie (right)

Godzilla burger number three was the pepper chicken version which prompted the reality star to declare: 'The buns... everything. The best fast food bun I've ever had. Damn. It's like a Chick-fil-A chicken biscuit.'

Rachael then turned her attention to the fries before picking up her Shaka Shaka Chicken - which comes with a choice of two powders - red pepper or cheese.

The foodie picked up her red pepper sachet, sprinkled it into the bag and shook the crispy chicken fillet until it was coated.

The pair devoured the dish, adding a dab of wasabi mustard, as Matt shared: 'The chicken was delicious. It could have passed as homemade along with that mustard.'

Last, but not least, the TV personality brought out his dessert - a butterscotch apple pie.

Before he even took a bite, he commented that it was 'super crispy,' adding: 'It's like the crispiest... they couldn't have fried this any longer without it turning into a French fry.'

Matt then took a bite and said it was the 'best apple pie I ever had,' before Racheal comedically adds: 'It's not apple pie.'

He captioned the video: 'McDonald's in Japan is AMAZING! Highly recommend stopping into a McDonalds if you're traveling to see how unique they all are.'

His clip was soon flooded with comments from some of his 578,000 followers as they declared they wanted to try the foods for themselves.

His clip was soon flooded with comments from some of his 578,000 followers as they declared they wanted to try the foods for themselves

One person wrote: 'The only problem with this trip is I can't go there right now and eat all your recs.'

Another person added: 'Sheeessh, imma need to catch a flight just for McDonald's,' as Matt replied: 'Looked crazy, right??'

'I know it's McDonald's but the quality looks so good,' someone else shared.

Other commenters noted the difference between American McDonald's and the chain's restaurants abroad.

One person wrote: 'Any overseas McDonald's slaps,' and another user added: 'I wish America had that.'

Another person wrote: 'We don't do anything right in America.'

A fourth commenter added: 'McDonald's it's so UNFAIR! How come the US doesn't get this delicious stuff??'

One added: 'Japan's McDonald's just hits different.'