As it's President's Day in the USA, millions of people have the day off. It's good timing, because as the Sun moves into Pisces, it reminds us of the value of self-care.

If we're only ever hyper-alert and focused, how can we generate the energy to maintain our state of busyness?

Relaxation is a form of healing. And today, we can make time for looking after ourselves, no matter how busy (or not!) our schedule.

Read more horoscopes from MailOnline.

ARIES

March 21 - April 20

It's tempting to think about what's not working. But do you want to be part of the problem or part of the solution? Suppose, instead of focusing on the negatives, you turn your thoughts to what would make everything right, and formulate an action plan that will make it your reality? You've got more power than you think. It might feel as if someone else holds all the cards, (and has more influence than you), but they're bound by limits and problems you can't see. Be firm and clear today. You can start to affect the change you wish for.

How can you stay focused and happy? Your in-depth forecasts hold the advice you need. cainer.com

Oscar Cainer (pictured) reminds us that relaxation is a form of healing. Today, we can make time for looking after ourselves, no matter how busy (or not!) our schedule

TAURUS

April 21 - May 21

We all want to be free. At least, that's what we think we want. Meanwhile, we make long-term financial engagements and commit to employment contracts. Maybe the truth is that we want security more than freedom. Or that we like having the freedom to choose which freedoms we want (and don't want). It's not a lack of liberty that's the problem in your world right now. You've got lots of options. But the option you're looking for isn't one of those options. Aargh! The Sun's move into Pisces reveals an alternative you'll like.

For excellent advice to guide you through the twists and turns ahead. cainer.com

GEMINI

May 22 - June 22

A meaningful discussion involves the exchange of opinions and ideas. You say something. The other person listens. Then they reply. And you listen before offering your response. The idea, of course, is that we take the other person's views on board, and our reply reflects their thoughts. It sounds simple! Yet humans don't seem to be particularly gifted at this kind of dialogue. We have to make a conscious effort to listen to what people say. You now have a chance to smooth over a source of tension. But it's going to take patience.

There's no need to worry. All you need is some guidance. Your in-depth forecasts can help at cainer.com

CANCER

June 23 - July 23

Miracles are always possible. But they seem to be more possible when people believe in the possibility of them occurring in their lives. If an opportunity appears and we think about all the reasons why it's not as good as it looks, guess what? The opportunity loses some of its miracle potential. I mention this because an idea has fired you up with enthusiasm. But other people's negative reactions have made you start doubting your response. Yet your excitement is valid and justified. Don't be talked out of anything today.

What does your heart desire and how can you achieve what you really want? See your in-depth forecasts at cainer.com

LEO

July 24 - August 23

Which shade of blue do you prefer? Is turquoise better than aquamarine? If you're redecorating your bathroom, you might feel strongly about which colour you prefer. And I expect Michelangelo had clear ideas about which shade he used and where, when he was painting the Sistine Chapel. Yet our views are subjective. Ultimately, both hues are of equal value. Could you be focusing on a minor detail (rather than the bigger picture)? Some issues really aren't worth debating. Do you really need to make a point today?

Curious to know more? There's always valuable news in your in-depth forecasts at cainer.com

VIRGO

August 24 - September 23

Why go to the trouble of making plans today? What's the point in trying to set a process in motion? After all, how can you be sure that the timing is right? Since the circumstances aren't exactly ideal, wouldn't it make sense to wait for things to improve? Hmmm... when it comes to procrastination, we're all experts. Perfect timing is a rarity. And when opportunities present themselves, they're always accompanied by reasons not to take them. If you want something to happen in your world now, stop hesitating. Go for it!

Success is about attitude and timing. Your in-depth forecasts show the way to positive change. Visit cainer.com

LIBRA

September 24 - October 23

The last thing I want is to add to the pressure you're experiencing. But... you've got a decision to make. Eeek! Yet rather than avoiding it, aren't you just going through the kind of experience we all have when we run through our plans before making a commitment? Although we know what we want to do and what hope to do, since we haven't done it, there's a chance we might change our minds. So, we think it all through again. It's called double-checking. Still, if you don't act soon, it might turn into dithering! You don't want that!

You've got lots to look forward to. The inspiration you need is in your in-depth forecasts at cainer.com

SCORPIO

October 24 - November 22

If we need to tell someone something they're going to find unpalatable, it's good to find a way to sweeten what we say. If, for example, we need to express a criticism, we can start by giving a compliment, then follow the critique with an encouragement. It makes it easier for the person being spoken to to hear what's being said. Since you need to communicate something tricky, if you spend time thinking about how you're going to say it, you'll save yourself from having to deal with the consequences of it being badly received.

Knowledge is power. Find out how to take full advantage of your astrological assets at cainer.com

As it's President's Day in the USA, millions of people have the day off. It's good timing, because as the Sun (pictured) moves into Pisces, it reminds us of the value of self-care

SAGITTARIUS

November 23 - December 21

Since there's so much misunderstanding and miscommunication around, it makes you wonder why we bother talking. All across the planet, people are constantly expressing what's on their hearts and minds. Yet we don't seem to make much progress when it comes to understanding one another. What's going on? It's not hard to figure it out. We talk, but we struggle to listen. If you have a chance to engage in an important conversation today, remember to put your effort into the difficult part as well as the easy bit!

What's in the sky for you? Helpful planetary alignments! For good news, see your in-depth forecasts at cainer.com

CAPRICORN

December 22 - January 20

Emotions are complicated to explain, even to ourselves. We feel what we feel because we feel it. Just because we don't think we should be feeling it, doesn't mean that we can change how we feel. Yet we're not bound to indulge our emotions. When we acknowledge the fact that they can't be intellectually understood, we give ourselves a chance to transform them. If you want to change the way you feel about a situation, instead of trying to talk yourself out of it, try substituting one feeling for another. That will do the trick.

Make the most of your opportunities. Your in-depth forecast have inspiring news at cainer.com

AQUARIUS

January 21 - February 19

Some people have commitment issues. The idea of making promises they can't keep makes them so stressed they avoid making promises. Other folk have the opposite problem. They're so anxious about being judged they stick with what they've committed to - even if it's making them miserable. Both these syndromes can affect all aspects of life - not just relationships. Unusually perhaps, it's the latter option that's affecting your ability to make a decision right now. If you're unhappy about an arrangement, it's important to be honest.

Transform your life! To move forwards in a positive direction, there's good news when you visit cainer.com

PISCES

February 20 - March 20

Just because you're sharing your zodiac sign with millions of other Pisceans doesn't mean you're not unique. You've got characteristics in common. But you're special, with your own talents and qualities. As the Sun moves into your sign, it reboots your sense of individuality. When dealing with the important issues coming your way, try celebrating your distinctiveness. When you acknowledge your skills you can use them, in ways that enable other people to appreciate theirs. And that leads to cooperation... and success.

For advice to guide you through the twists and turns ahead, see your in-depth forecasts at cainer.com