A woman has been arrested on suspicion of murder after three children were found dead at a home in Bristol.

Officers made the tragic discovery in the early hours of Sunday morning after receiving a concern from welfare call at a property Blaise Walk, Sea Mills, at around 12.40am.

Three children were pronounced dead at the scene Avon and Somerset Police said in a statement, with their cause of death yet to be confirmed.

A murder probe has been launched with the 42-year-old woman arrested being held in police custody at a hospital, the force added.

Locals reported seeing a heavy police presence in the area this morning while photos show part of the road cordoned off, with multiple police cars and a forensic team on the scene.

Police have arrested a woman on suspicion of murder after three children were found dead at an address in Blaise Walk, Sea Mills in Bristol. Pictured: Police at the scene this afternoon

Officers gather at the scene in Sea Mills, Bristol on Sunday after three children were found dead

Neighbourhood Chief Inspector Vicks Hayward-Melen said: 'This is an incredibly tragic and heart-breaking incident in which three children have sadly died.

Chief Inspector Vicks Hayward-Melen said: 'My sincere condolences go to the children's loved ones and we will be ensuring they are offered support through our family liaison unit.

'We believe this to be an isolated incident and there is no further risk to the wider community, however officers will remain at the scene to provide reassurance to anyone who has any questions or concerns.

'Over the coming days, residents can expect to see an increased police presence and we thank them for their co-operation during this time.'

Police said the Independent Office for Police Conduct had been informed about the incident due to 'prior police contact'.

Mayor of Bristol Martin Reeves wrote on Facebook: 'It's almost impossible to find the words to describe this afternoon's devastating news from Sea Mills, Bristol

'My thoughts are with all who knew these three young children – we will be working with schools, the community, and the police to support people.'

Darren Jones, MP for Bristol North West added on social media: 'I'm deeply saddened by this tragic news from Sea Mills today.

'My thoughts and prayers are with the friends and family of the children, and my thanks go to our emergency services who responded. Avon and Somerset Police will remain in the area but consider this to be an isolated incident.'

The three children were pronounced dead at the scene, Avon and Somerset Police said today. Pictured: Police at the home

A police cordon seen in place on Blaise Walk in Sea Mills near Bristol after three children were found dead

A police van seen earlier on Sunday after officers were called to the scene at 12.40am

Local councillor Henry Michallat, who represents Sea Mills added: 'I am deeply shocked and saddened by the news coming from Sea Mills today.

'My thoughts and prayers are with the family and friends of the children at this sad and difficult time. I thank emergency service personnel who have responded.'

Avon and Somerset Police Crime Commissioner Mark Shelford added: 'I am deeply saddened by the news of the deaths of three children today in Sea Mills.

'The deaths of these children is heart breaking. My thoughts are with all those who knew and cared for these children and with the local community, who I know will be impacted.

'The police have made an arrest and believe this to be an isolated incident. They have assessed that there is no further risk to the wider community.

'There are questions to be asked about how such an appalling event has occurred and what could have been done to prevent it, but for now, I ask that people allow the police to investigate.'

A statement from Avon and Somerset Police said: 'Officers attended a concern for welfare call in Blaise Walk, in Sea Mills, on Sunday February 18 at around 12.40am.

'Tragically, three young children inside the property were pronounced dead a short time later.

A police cordon in place in front of a home in Sea Mills, Bristol on Sunday afternoon

Avon and Somerset Police said the discovery was made after officers attended a concern for welfare call in Blaise Walk, Sea Mills. Pictured: Police at the scene earlier today

Police have arrested a woman on suspicion of murder after three children were found dead at an address in Blaise Walk, Bristol

'A 42-year-old woman has been arrested on suspicion of murder and she is in police custody at hospital.

'As is usual in these circumstances we have notified the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC), due to prior police contact.'

An IOPC spokesperson said: 'We were notified this afternoon about this tragic incident in Bristol by Avon and Somerset Police, who advised us that there had been prior police contact earlier this month.

'We have requested a paper referral with further information about the prior contact and once received, we will assess it to determine whether further action is required from us.'

The community in Sea Mills has been left reeling from the incident. The area's local community playgroup will remained closed tomorrow as a result of the tragedy.

Writing on Facebook Sea Mills Community Playgroup said: 'Due to the tragic events in our community today, playgroup will be cancelled tomorrow morning.

'Our hearts go out to the family and their friends, neighbours, school friends and wider community.'