Residents living in multi-million dollar properties in a plush country Victorian suburb were unaware they had been living next to a house of horrors.

That is, until mentally ill resident 'Marie' was taken away by police in handcuffs, bringing to light a grisly ordeal.

Inside her ramshackle home in Newtown, Geelong, Marie had been living not only among piles of rotting garbage for years, but the body of her deceased brother.

From the outside, the home appeared to be well maintained, with Marie known among her neighbours to be somewhat of a 'clean freak'.

Police arrest a woman who had been allegedly living with her dead brother's corpse for years

A woman believed to have been living with her brother's corpse was known to cut the front lawn of her property (pictured) with scissors

The home has been cleared of rubbish, but still has broken windows at the rear

'We would see her outside cutting the lawn with a pair of scissors,' one neighbour from across the road told Daily Mail Australia.

Neighbours claimed they had been unaware of the tragic conditions Marie and her brother had been living in for what some fear could have been as long as five years.

Positioned just across the road from Geelong Football Club's home ground, The suburb is considered one of the city's most affluent.

Marie had been living in housing commission flats nestled among its posh surroundings for more than a decade.

Both Marie and her brother were described by her neighbours as friendly, but distinctly odd characters in the otherwise well-to-do neighbourhood.

'She was a bit strange. We all knew her. She wasn't dangerous or anything,' a neighbour who wished to remain anonymous said.

'She'd be out cleaning and doing stuff, picking up leaves. She was always so nice and clean. She was quiet, reserved, withdrawn. No-one knew what was going on inside.'

'Marie' (pictured) kept the outside of her flat neat and tidy, according to neighbours

'Marie' was known as a hoarder, who filled her house with garbage

The 'house of horrors' has been abandoned

Marie's brother, who had not been seen by her neighbours for years, was remembered for his curious nature.

'He obviously had some mental issues too. We'd see him pop out and he loved looking into cars. He'd peer into cars, but he never did anything wrong.'

Neighbours said they didn't think much about it when they stopped seeing him around the neighbourhood.

'Things change, people leave ... it's just horrible,' the neighbour said.

Forensic specialists in biohazard suits retrieved what was left of Marie's brother on December 29, 2022 after she was arrested for allegedly breaching an intervention order.

Today the house remains unoccupied, with boards covering the smashed rear windows of the property.

Nicole Stratton, who has lived directly behind the 'house of horrors' for the past six years, said she was mortified about what had happened to her neighbour.

'She definitely had mental health issues, but I was definitely surprised by the dead body in there,' she said on Monday.

'As messy as the house was on the inside, it was very maintained on the outside.'

Police in hazardous material suits converge on Maria's home

The home is positioned a stone's throw from AFL team Geelong's home ground (pictured)

Ms Stratton said she had complained to Victoria's Department of Families, Fairness and Housing about her neighbour, but they failed to uncover the body.

'They would come and check (me) and they would ask about her and I would complain about the smell. It was disgusting and the carport was always filled with (rubbish),' she said.

'I always thought the smell was just garbage because she was always collecting garbage from everywhere. I just thought it was the old rubbish left under the carport.

'The blinds were always down and there was just mould on it. She never opened the house up.'

The remains of junk and litter can still be seen out back of the flat, where an empty beer bottle rests in the home's gutter.

'Apparently it was horrendous inside. I just think the whole thing is terribly sad. It's shocking,' another neighbour said.

Marie, believed to be aged in her 70s, was released without charge last year in relation to her brother's death, with the coroner still investigating the exact circumstances of his demise, the Herald Sun reported.

Recent attention has opened old wounds for those who knew the elderly pair across the street.

'It happened a year ago ... She was mentally ill and they just slipped through the cracks. If anyone was to talk to her she would have portrayed that everything was fine. It's sad,' a neighbour said.