Network 10 staff have been put on notice that job cuts are on the way as their parent international media company axes positions worldwide to streamline costs.

Paramount Global, who owns the embattled network, sent an email to all staff on Wednesday from chief executive Bob Bakish informing them of upcoming job losses.

The email didn't indicate how many jobs would be cut, but The Australian understands the company will axe hundreds of positions worldwide.

In the email, Mr Bakish said the top priority in 2024 is to see a return to 'earning growth'.

'This will require us to continue to grow revenue, while reducing costs,' he wrote.

Channel Ten's parent company, Paramount sent out an email today notifying staff of upcoming job losses worldwide. It is unknown how many cuts will be made in Australia

It's not known how many job cuts will be made. Pictured are hosts of The Project with Liz Elllis

READ MORE: Inside Lisa Wilkinson and husband Peter FitzSimons' $70m property portfolio The TV host, 64, and her journalist husband Peter FitzSimons, 62, have amassed an impressive profile of luxury homes over the years Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/news/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

'And unfortunately, part of streamlining costs means that today, we will begin the difficult process of saying goodbye to some of our very valued colleagues across Paramount.'

Mr Bakish said employees outside of its US headquarters would also be impacted.

'Those notifications will occur over time in line with our local legal obligations in each of the countries where we operate,' he said.

A follow-up email from Network Ten's Australian management team including executive vice president Beverley McGarvey is yet to be issued.

Her role also encompasses that of chief content officer and head of Paramount Plus.

The announcement of the cuts comes as the legal stoush between journalist Lisa Wilkinson and her employer Channel Ten played out in the Federal Court this week.

The case relates to the defamation action taken by former Liberal staffer Bruce Lehrmann against both Ten and Wilkinson.

Network Ten has had various owners over the years.

In 2010 James Packer purchased an 18 per cent stake, or $244m worth, which was later split with fellow media mogul Lachlan Murdoch.

It proved to not be enough to help the network, with Ten plunged into administration in 2017.

It's understood Network Ten's executive vice president Beverley McGarvey (pictured) has yet to issue any follow up emails or information to Channel 10 staff members

The network was then bought out by US television giant CBS in the same year, but just two years later CBS merged with Paramount.

There have been reports recently of talks between Paramount and Warner Bros Discovery to discuss a potential merger between the two media heavy-weights.

Mr Bakish encouraged staff to make time this week to support each another.

Daily Mail Australia has contacted Network Ten was contacted for comment.