Celebrity Big Brother has reportedly signed former X Factor judge Louis Walsh in a huge six-figure deal.

The iconic reality show returns for a brand new reboot on ITV2 next month and bosses hope Louis will share secrets from his career while in the house.

However according to The Sun there are some famous faces that are nervous about how honest the TV legend could be in front of the cameras.

As well as a panellist on the X Factor from 2004 to 2017, Louis has also worked with the likes of Westlife, Boyzone and Girls Aloud.

A source told the publication: '[Louis] is one of the most intriguing signings for Celebrity Big Brother because he has almost half a century of experience in showbusiness to recall when he enters the house.

Celebrity Big Brother has reportedly signed former X Factor judge Louis Walsh in a huge six-figure deal

The iconic reality show returns for a brand new reboot on ITV2 next month and bosses hope Louis will share secrets from his career while in the house (L-R) Simon Cowell, Cheryl Cole, Dannii Minogue and Louis on The X Factor in 2008

'Viewers will be most interested in his memories of his time on The X Factor and working with huge music acts including Westlife and Boyzone'.

Adding: 'But there may be a few celebrities outside the house who are feeling nervous about what he might say, because Louis is notoriously outspoken'.

ITV told MailOnline: 'Any names are at this point pure speculation and viewers will have to tune to see who will be entering the Celebrity Big Brother house'.

Louis representatives have also been approached for comment.

It comes after Celebrity Big Brother bosses unveiled the new eye logo for the new series and confirmed the start date.

During a commercial break while Love Island All Stars was on air on ITV2 last week, the colourful logo was revealed.

The logo, similar to last year's civilian version, features an eye surrounded by various emojis and shapes.

A yellow star sits in the centre to represent the celebrities who will be entering the house.

However according to reports there are some famous faces that are nervous about how honest the TV legend could be in front of the cameras

As well as a panellist on the X Factor from 2004 to 2017, Louis has also worked with the likes of Westlife, Boyzone and Girls Aloud (Louis pictured with Westlife in 1999)

Confirming the new show will start next month, a post on the programme's social media pages read: 'Celebrities… Big Brother is coming to get you. Coming March to ITV1 and #CBBUK.

Host AJ Odudu gave fans a glimpse at the Celebrity Big Brother eye ahead of the start of the new series.

Television presenter AJ, 35, posted a black and white snap of the eye logo in a now-deleted Instagram Story.

The pictured showed the logo, similar to last year's civilian version with the eye surrounded by emojis, in a tunnel reminiscent of the entranceway to the Big Brother house which featured in the 2023 reboot series.

However, the eye had been updated to include a star in the middle to represent the celebrity series.

Photography and filming equipment could be seen in the studio but neither AJ nor her Big Brother co-host, Will Best, 38, were seen in the picture.

AJ and Will fronted the reboot series of Big Brother on ITV2 last year when it returned to screens in October, having last aired on Channel 5, five years prior.

The Celebrity Big Brother filming start date was recently revealed ahead of the 'most controversial' series ever.