Other features are a welcome centre with spa rooms and a gym, a restaurant and bar and a guest house

It's called Royal Island and it's up for sale - for a king's ransom.

But these breathtaking images show that you get a substantial slice of paradise for your money.

Royal Island is a private 430-acre oasis in the Bahamas - located off Russell Island in the district of North Eleuthera - and is up for sale with Vladi Private Islands for an eye-watering $45million (£35million).

Among its standout features are sandy white beaches lined with palm trees, a natural harbour, a turn-key resort, and approved plans for an 18-hole golf course.

The accommodations in place, reveals the listing, include five luxury one-bedroom beachfront villas with large wraparound decks, plus there's a welcome centre complete with spa rooms and a gym, a restaurant/bar building and a guest house near the main buildings. Vladi Private Islands adds: 'All of the community buildings offer sweeping wraparound verandahs and both overlook the beaches and a stunning oval-shaped pool.'

Scroll down and be dazzled by the pictures of this royally captivating island.

Royal Island covers 430 acres and comprises 'beautiful beaches, great elevations, a large natural harbour and a turn-key private resort', says Vladi Private Islands, tasked with selling it

'In 2007, Royal Island was approved for a major marina in the natural harbour in addition to an 18-hole golf course,' according to the property listing, which adds: 'These approvals can be utilised or modified to create an incredible private island retreat'

All of the community buildings on the island boast 'sweeping wraparound verandahs' and overlook both the beaches and a 'stunning oval-shaped pool' (pictured)

Royal Island is situated in the Bahamas, around 40 miles (64km) northeast of Nassau and just a 15-minute boat ride from North Eleuthera, which has an international airport

The island is on the market for an eye-watering $45million (£35million). The asking price also includes five luxury one-bedroom beachfront villas along Melanie Beach, pictured

Any potential new owner could take advantage of the island's welcome centre 'complete with spa rooms and a gym', and the Melanie Beach Club, which comprises a restaurant-bar and main lounge area. Both buildings are pictured above

The island's current offering is 'excellent for private gatherings', the property listing claims. Pictured: The bunk-suite, which is furnished with bunk beds and can accommodate four children

With the island's current setup, guests enjoy a 'customised experience with a world-class private chef'. Pictured: The king-sized bed and lounge area at one of the five beachfront villas along Melanie Beach

This image shows the gym that's included in the sale. The price tag also includes a private catamaran and security services