READ MORE: Fascinating map reveals where the world wants to spend Christmas

Another dishes out fines for anyone caught swearing in public

One country carries fines of up to $40,000 (£31,750) for having a plastic bag

Plastic bags. Bikinis. Sex dolls.

These are three items that could land you in trouble on your next holiday, along with the act of taking a photo and swearing.

How? Read this handy guide to six surprising laws in holiday hotspots around the world to find out...

The plastic bag rule

Tourists headed to Kenya should avoid bringing plastic bags into the country or risk facing a fine or even prison. Pictured: Turtle Beach in Watamu, Kenya

Tourists headed to Kenya should avoid bringing plastic bags into the country. Having one is an offence and could lead to a hefty fine or even a prison sentence.

The Kenyan government introduced the law in 2017, banning the sale and use of plastic bags, Reuters reported.

Rule breakers risk up to four years in prison or fines of up to $40,000 (£31,750).

The suitcase rule

In Dubrovnik, tourists are asked not to wheel their suitcases through the city's old quarter (above)

Tourists jetting off to the Croatian city of Dubrovnik should pay attention to their noise levels on holiday.

A local government initiative asks tourists to refrain from wheeling their suitcases through the old quarter and carry them by the handle instead.

It is part of a series of new measures announced this year by city mayor Mato Frankovic to regulate and sanction noise.

Early reports said that tourists could be lumped with a sizeable €265 (£227) fine if caught breaking the rule.

A campaign launched by the city's local authority has since clarified that the measures aim to 'raise awareness about the noise regulation in the city' and that 'no financial fines' will be imposed, reports themayor.eu.

The blow-up doll rule

Last year Malaga city council cracked down on crude party antics, banning nudity and 'erotic items in public'

Anyone heading for a stag or hen party in southern Spain should take note of the local laws in Malaga.

The city has become a tourist favourite thanks to cheap flights and a buzzing nightlife.

But in 2022, the city council cracked down on crude party antics, banning nudity and 'erotic items in public' such as inflatable sex dolls.

Malaga City Hall told MailOnline Travel it is 'prohibited' to be naked or wearing only underwear in public, and to carry items including dolls of a sexual nature.

Anyone caught breaking this law risks a fine of up to €750 (£640).

The swearing rule

Swearing in public is a punishable offence in parts of Australia, including Sydney (above)

Tourists planning to jet off to Australia should be aware of the country's law against swearing in public in certain regions, according to online travel agent eShores.

For example, in New South Wales, which includes Sydney, offensive language must not be used 'near a public place or a school', says the NSW Summary Offenses Act 1988.

Anyone caught swearing is liable for a fine of up to £342 (660AUD) under this measure.

The bikini rule

On inhabited islands, home to local Maldivians, local laws apply that ban bikinis. However, some inhabited islands, such as Maafushi (pictured) and Fulidhoo, have designated 'bikini beaches'

On inhabited islands in the Maldives, local laws prohibit the wearing of bikinis.

Police action can be taken for indecent exposure against those who do not follow the rule.

However, some inhabited islands, such as Maafushi and Fulidhoo, have designated 'bikini beaches', where tourists can don their skimpy beachwear.

The photo rule

The Italian fishing village of Portofino introduced two no-waiting zones, which apply during high season, to prevent tourists from 'lingering' to take pictures

Portofino on Italy's Amalfi coast, with its pastel-coloured houses, has Instagram appeal turned up to 11.

But visitors have to control their urges to secure snaps for their feeds, because stopping to take a photo could land them a €275 (£235) fine.

This is because the fishing village has introduced two no-waiting zones that apply during high season to prevent tourists from 'lingering' to take pictures.

In a statement shared with The Times earlier this year, the town's mayor Matteo Viacava said: 'The objective is not to make the place more exclusive but to allow everyone to enjoy our beauty.

'We want to avoid dangerous situations caused by overcrowding.'

The rule was introduced this year and implemented during peak tourist season, from April to October.