Shocking photos captured the chaotic and gruesome aftermath of a fatal dog attack where a man was mauled to death by his 13 pitbulls in his yard in Los Angeles.

LAPD officers were called to the home on the 900 block of Thorson Avenue, Compton, at 7am on Friday after a concerned friend went to the house and discovered his body.

Officials believe he was a breeder and had gone into the yard to feed the dogs on Thursday night when a fight broke out between the animals and they turned on him.

Helicopter footage showed his bloodied body lying face down in one of the enclosures in his yard while five adult pitbulls and eight puppies ran around and fought.

The man's identity has not yet been released, but neighbors told local news he was a 35-year-old man who lived alone.

The man's body was found face down in one of the enclosures in his backyard

The dogs could be seen running around the yard and fighting as officials tried to restrain them

His friend called police early on Friday saying 'her friend was seen in the backyard and appeared to have been mauled by his dog'.

Police, firemen and animal control then descended on the house, climbing over the roof to get to the yard and round up the dogs.

They found five adults and eight puppies - aged between four and six months - and corralled them into a neighboring yard to get to the man's body.

Meanwhile a woman who had somehow entered the yard tried to climb up a wall to get out and had to be helped by firefighters.

Michael Gomez with the Los Angeles Sheriff's Department Homicide Bureau told KTLA5: 'He was feeding the dogs at which point maybe there was an altercation between some of the dogs and [they] ultimately attacked and mauled the victim.'

L.A. County’s Animal Care & Control said: 'Preliminary information suggests that the deceased individual was involved in breeding and selling Pitbulls.'

The victim's father has now signed the dogs over to animal control for 'impoundment and examination'.

DACC Director Marcia Mayeda told KTLA5: 'Our deepest sympathies are extended to the family and friends of the victim.

Officers climbed over the roof to get to the yard and found five adult dogs and eight puppies

A woman who some how got into the backyard was helped to climb out over the wall by firefighters

The victim's father handed the dogs over to animal control to be impounded and examined

'We are committed to conducting a thorough investigation to determine the facts and ensure the safety and well-being of both the community and the animals involved.'

Damian Wesley with Compton Animal Rescue told the outlet: 'I hope that awareness is spread… that people need to take great care of their dogs.

'People need to understand that these dogs can kill somebody and hurt people.'

There were no previous reports of the dogs attacking people, but one neighbor told Fox News that a few of the dogs had gotten out and attacked his chickens before.

California does not have any statewide bans of un-neutered pitbulls, some towns have introduced specific rules themselves, but not Compton.

Shocking photos show aftermath of horror pit bull attack where LA breeder was viciously mauled to death by pack of 13 dogs as he tried to feed them in backyard kennel