Gogglebox viewers were left fuming at the 'bad timing' emotional tribute to 'Mummy Pat' airing directly after a clip on sex toys.

Pat Webb, who appeared on the hit Channel 4 show alongside her son Stephen Webb, died last month after a long illness.

And following a segment from This Morning where hosts Alison Hammond and Dermot O’Leary learnt about the best butt plugs and a viral ‘suction rose’ to buy, a sweet tribute message was played for Pat.

It read: ‘In loving memory Mummy Pat Webb 1948-2024.’

However viewers were quick to slam the show on X, formerly Twitter, for playing the tribute straight after the shocking segment.

Gogglebox viewers were left fuming at the 'bad timing' emotional tribute to 'Mummy Pat' airing directly after a clip on sex toys

Pat Webb, who appeared on the hit Channel 4 show alongside her son Stephen Webb, died last month after a long illness

Gogglebox star Mary Killen wrote: ‘Oh no! It’s an afront to human dignity to show this.’

While Pete Sandiford and his sister Sophie were in hysterics, Mary ended the show with: ‘Siri, call Ofcom.’

‘WTAF? Should you really show a tribute to someone who’s passed…immediately after a feature on butt plugs?!?!’ blasted another.

Another added: ‘What the Fu&£ is going on #Gogglebox featuring butt plugs immediately going to a tribute to #MummyPatWebb really poor taste!’

Another penned: ‘Timing at the end of tonight was questionable #Gogglebox they went from butt plugs to a commemoration to mama pat. Lovely tribute. Bad timing. Maybe should have done it at end of titles.’

Last month, a statement was shared on the official Gogglebox social media page announcing the sad news of Pat's death.

It read: ‘We are deeply saddened to announce that Gogglebox star Mummy Pat Webb passed away this weekend at the age of 75 after a long illness.

‘Pat was a much loved cast member on the show from series 10 -12 alongside her son Stephen.

And following a segment from This Morning where hosts Alison Hammond and Dermot O’Leary learnt about the best butt plugs and a viral ‘suction rose’ to buy, a tribute message was played for Pat

However viewers were quick to slam the show on X for playing the tribute straight after the shocking segment

Pat joined Gogglebox after Stephen's ex-partner Chris Steed left the programme in 2018

‘Mummy Pat will be remembered and missed by her children Stephen, Denise, Sharon, Beverley and the extended family.’

It concluded: ‘Our thoughts are with the family who have requested privacy at this sad time.’

Stephen also took to Instagram to pay tribute to his beloved mum, he wrote: ‘Mummy Pat, you were one in a million, took everyone at face value, would share your last fiver with a stranger, the salt of the earth and the absolute centre of our world! Rest in peace mum.’

Pat joined Gogglebox after Stephen's ex-partner Chris Steed left the programme in 2018.

From 2019 until 2023, Stephen appeared alongside his husband Daniel.

Stephen was one of the series' longest-running stars having joined when it first started in 2013.

The sad news comes after Stephen announced he and Daniel were leaving the show last year.

Gogglebox airs Fridays at 9pm on Channel 4.