Founders, Silicon Valley investors, and executives are returning to San Francisco after fleeing during the pandemic almost four years ago.

Technology founders even boasted about their success in securing funding outside the Bay Area and pushed for remote work among their employees.

But despite the city suffering high levels of crime and homelessness, virtually rendering parts of downtown a no-go area, slowly but surely those involved in the tech industry are making a return to the City by the Bay.

Notable tech figures, like Elon Musk who has long criticized San Francisco's political culture, has been back in the city since October 2022 when he purchased Twitter, now X together with its headquarters.

Entrepreneurs and investors are returning with the city now at the forefront of the latest revolution in emerging tech, as AI slowly becomes more mainstream, according to the Wall Street Journal.

Notable tech figures, such as Elon Musk , who has long criticized San Francisco's political culture, has been back in the city since October 2022 when he purchased Twitter, now X together with its headquarters.

The headquarters of X occupies a pride of place position in San Francisco's downtown area

After a pandemic-induced exodus from San Francisco by founders, Silicon Valley figures, and tech execs, there is a notable return to the city, driven by new tech. Pictured, the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco

Companies like OpenAI, which run ChatGPT, are leasing new buildings in the city while other Bay Area tech companies are reinforcing return-to-office mandates, with Robinhood Markets and Chime now implementing stricter policies for staff.

OpenAI's CEO, Sam Altman, has his main home in San Francisco's Russian Hill neighborhood.

Tech institutions like Y Combinator are also expanding their presence in San Francisco, while some co-founders, like those of fintech startup Brex, have returned after initially moving to other cities during the pandemic.

In 2020, venture capitalist Keith Rabois encouraged startup founders to leave San Francisco altogether for Miami, citing the latter's safety, lower taxes, and tech-friendly mayor.

OpenAI's CEO, Sam Altman, has his main home in San Francisco's Russian Hill neighborhood

Companies like OpenAI which run ChatGPT are leasing new buildings in the city

The city's longstanding tech reputation, proximity to renowned universities for engineering talent and a recent AI boom are all factors drawing people back

Rabois, now at Khosla Ventures, but who has had significant success with Airbnb and DoorDash, described San Francisco as 'miserable on every dimension' in a tweet.

But now that strategy has changed and it appears the tide is turning with several of the startups he supported now relocating or establishing offices back in San Francisco in order to improve their ability to attract engineering talent.

Rabois, an early executive at PayPal recognized in Silicon Valley for both his outspoken opinions and successful investments, relocated to Miami a year after joining Founders Fund.

In Miami, he purchased a $29 million waterfront property and established a new office for the firm.

This move coincided with a period of low-interest rates, fostering a surge in startup funding and prompting various venture firms to expand their presence nationwide.

Miami's mayor, Francis X. Suarez, even declared the city as the world's crypto capital.

But last year, venture investment in Miami saw a massive 70 percent plunge with just $2 billion invested last year.

Keith Rabois, now at Khosla Ventures, but who has had significant success with Airbnb and DoorDash, had previously described San Francisco as 'miserable on every dimension'

Howie Liu, CEO of enterprise startup Airtable, has increased his time in San Francisco to meet with sales customers after spending a significant part of the pandemic in Los Angeles

Henrique Dubugras, co-founders of the fintech startup Brex, returned to San Francisco

One AI startup, Delphi, secured funding from Rabois in Miami and has moved the HQ to San Francisco.

Traba, a contracting startup also initially backed by Rabois three years ago, opted to open an office in New York, where a majority of its employees now operate.

Similarly, OpenStore, an e-commerce venture co-founded by Rabois in 2021, established a new engineering hub in the Bay Area last year, although Rabois notes the majority of the startup's workforce remains based in Miami.

Nevertheless, Silicon Valley leaders are beginning to engage in local politics once again and looking out for the safety of families and businesses moving back to the area.

Despite a 12 percent decline in investment for Bay Area startups to $63.4 billion last year, San Francisco has demonstrated resilience compared to smaller tech hubs like Austin (27 percent decrease) and Los Angeles (42 percent decrease).

Plenty of others are also returning. Mo Koyfman, the founder of venture firm Shine Capital, believes San Francisco has staying power having had its tech businesses built over the last several decades with the pandemic being a mere blip in terms of time.

Ben Horowitz, co-founder of venture firm Andreessen Horowitz, chose to reside in Las Vegas during the pandemic, where he continues to live

Peter Thiel, a billionaire investor and founder of PayPal, Palantir Technologies and the Founders Fund, has made Los Angeles his home

Erik Torenberg, an investor in startups Scale AI and Figma, recently moved from Miami to San Francisco, where he is working on a new media company

Last year, Henrique Dubugras and Pedro Franceschi, left, co-founders of the fintech startup Brex, returned to San Francisco after coming under investor pressure

Prestigious universities such as Stanford are a key reason as any why top-tier venture firms must maintain a presence in the Bay Area, Koyfman believes.

Shine opened an office in San Francisco this January despite its HQ being in New York City.

Last year, Henrique Dubugras and Pedro Franceschi, co-founders of the fintech startup Brex, returned to San Francisco under investor pressure after relocating to Los Angeles, New York City, and then Miami during the pandemic.

Despite the company's valuation soaring to $12 billion, Brex laid off 20 percent of its workforce earlier this year.

Howie Liu, CEO of enterprise startup Airtable, has increased his time in San Francisco to meet with sales customers after spending a significant part of the pandemic in Los Angeles.

Erik Torenberg, an investor in startups Scale AI and Figma, recently moved from Miami to San Francisco, where he is working on a new media company.

Elon Musk temporarily moved Tesla's headquarters to Austin from northern California during the pandemic but he has been spending time in the city overseeing X and xAI, the artificial intelligence startup incorporated last year.

Max Gazor, a general partner at venture firm CRV and board member at Airtable, emphasized that the intellectual talent in San Francisco remains unparalleled, particularly in the field of AI, where companies have innovated at lightning speed.

In recent weeks, Bay Area tech companies have been enforcing return-to-office mandates with stricter measures.

Trading app Robinhood Markets announced in January that managers would monitor employees' office attendance based on badge swipes after an earlier policy failed.

Fintech company Chime also implemented return-to-work policies, requiring local employees to come in two days a week.

But not all tech leaders who left San Francisco in recent years have returned.

Ben Horowitz, co-founder of venture firm Andreessen Horowitz, chose to reside in Las Vegas during the pandemic, where he continues to live.

Peter Thiel, a billionaire investor and founder of Founders Fund, has made Los Angeles his home.

San Francisco owns one of the worst crime rates in the nation, and is ranked as safer than just 1 percent of US neighborhoods, according to crime tracker Neighborhood Scout

San Francisco is reeling from soaring crime, an emptying downtown, and residents moving away to safer, cheaper areas

Despite CEO's and investors showing they're open to return, it is a different story when it comes to retail.

One recent snap, taken in the heart of the city's famed shopping district earlier this month shows tourists wandering down a gutted Powell Street.

Instead of being graced with an array of shops, cafés, bars, and restaurants, the party is seen encountering countless shuttered storefronts.

More shots from photographer Erica Sandberg show more of the same, and how the thoroughfare that runs adjacent to the city's Downtown, all the way from Market to Fisherman's Wharf, has become a shell of its former self.

The sights, while startling, should come as no great surprise to anyone keeping up with the now-years-long saga of the crime-ridden, homeless-overrun city, which recently had two nets installed around its seminal bridge to prevent suicides.

One snap, taken in the heart of the city's famed shopping district , shows a group of tourists wandering down a gutted Powell St - a way once bustling with businesses.

Instead of being graced with an array of shops, cafés, bars, and restaurants, the party is seen encountering countless shuttered storefronts

'This pic infuriates me,' wrote Sandberg, a self-employed San Francisco correspondent, in an impassioned post to X that laid bare the city's current state

'Tourists, who do a little thing called SPEND MONEY, walking down a gutted Powell St.', she continued.

'[It] should be buzzing with shops, cafes, bars, restaurants, theaters, venues.'

Sandberg, in turn, categorized the fruits of her effort as both 'depressing [and] embarrassing' - not to mention a blow to the city's still-struggling shopping scene.

A homeless camp is pictured in San Francisco's Tenderloin district in December 2023

More shots from independent commentator Erica Sandberg show more of the same, and how the thoroughfare that runs adjacent to the city's Downtown has become a shell of its former self

The sights, while startling, should come as no great surprise to anyone keeping up with the now-years-long saga of the crime-ridden, homeless-overrun city, which recently had two nets installed on both sides of its seminal bridge to stop suicides.

A short walk through the area will reveal how there are more closed storefronts than open ones, as businesses continue to flee due to high rents and diminished foot traffic

As mentioned, the 1.4 mile thoroughfare connects Market Street (seen here in this map of store closures) - once one of the most photographed spots Downtown - to Union Square, North Beach, Nob Hill, and Russian Hill before ending at the bay

That said, the district is merely one of many left a husk by the city's continued homeless and crime crises, which took a turn during the pandemic and have since persisted.

The 1.4 mile thoroughfare connects Market Street - once one of the most photographed spots Downtown - to Union Square, North Beach, Nob Hill, and Russian Hill before ending at the bay, making it a prime destination.

Moreover, its southernmost point is only a stone's throw from another famed shopping area, the Bay Area's Mission District, which was recently rocked by a slew of restaurant closures on the equally iconic Valencia Street.

The roadway, located right on the cusp of the city's embattled Downtown, was once considered one of the most sought-after strips of real estate, but today, like Powell, is reeling from store closures brought on by high rents and diminished foot traffic.

In comments to the San Francisco Chronicle, restaurant owner Rafik Bouzidi explained how he had seen a seemingly endless stream of terminations since opening his eatery in April.

'If you took me back before I signed the lease, I would have opened somewhere else,' he told the paper in a recent interview.

'Before COVID there was no way in hell you could find an available space on Valencia Street. Now, it seems like another restaurant shuts down every week.'

A few blocks away, restaurants on one of San Francisco's Valencia Street, also one of the most storied in the country, are closing at an alarming rate - and owners say it's because of crime

In comments to the San Francisco Chronicle, business owners recently explained how high rents and high rates of homelessness have led to a seemingly endless stream of terminations

Homeless are seen returning to the streets in the Tenderloins district close to San Francisco's Moscone Center where the APEC conference was recently held

A homeless encampment is seen along Leavenworth Street in the Tenderloin district, only a few blocks from Powell

Headlines featuring the phrases 'garbage city, 'ruined city' and 'fallen city' capture how crippling drug issues and widespread homeless problems continue to remain an issue for residents.

The street then runs more than a mile north along some of the city's most problem areas, which, as the photos of the stripped storefronts show, are continuing to affect businesses

There, right outside the Nancy Pelosi Federal Building, drug dealers set up shop in full view of the public on a daily basis, with users injecting and smoking with no interference from law enforcement

The famous thoroughfare runs for more than mile along the city's embattled Downtown, where open-air drug use is rife

Meanwhile, the situation at Powell - set on one of the stops of the so-called 'Doom Loop' of Union Square, City Hall, and Tenderloin and Mid Market - is even worse, with Union currently serving a hive of unsavory, post-pandemic activity, particularly on the street's terminus on Market Street.

There, right outside the Nancy Pelosi Federal Building, drug dealers set up shop in full view of the public on a daily basis, with users injecting and smoking with no interference from law enforcement.

The street then runs more than a mile north along some of the city's most problem areas, which, as the photos of the stripped storefronts show, are continuing to affect businesses.

Crimes like robberies and homicides, meanwhile, are on the rise, statistics show - and the city stands to lose $200 million a year in revenue through its business exodus - which has seen major hotels and retailers flee the city center.

Retail stalwart Old Navy announced they would be shuttering their flagship store in the area In October, after Nordstrom also announced they would be closing all of their locations in the city.

Last April, Whole Foods announced it was closing all their locations, with Anthropologie and Office Depot having also made the same decisions leading some analysts to predict that the city has entered a 'doom-loop' of permanent decline.

The situation at Powell - set on one of the stops of the so-called 'Doom Loop' of Union Square, City Hall, and Tenderloin and Mid Market - is indicative of the current state of the city, with Union serving a hive of unsavory post-pandemic activity on the street's terminus on Market

Late last year, the city was widely mocked by Chinese media as it prepared to host its President Xi Jinpingat the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) summit - spurring it to clear out its encampments in the notorious Tenderloin and South of Market neighborhoods.

US Chinese Radio used the headline 'Ghost town San Francisco to have major blood exchange as APEC will bring the safest week in history to the city.'

Other headlines featuring the phrases 'garbage city, 'ruined city' and 'fallen city' capture how crippling drug issues and widespread homeless problems continue to remain an issue for residents.