Ben Foden's wife Jackie has given birth to their second child.

The former rugby player, 38, and the American socialite, 39, revealed their happy news on Monday, sharing that they've named their newborn daughter Olympia, nicknamed Pia.

The little girl was born two weeks early weighing 8lb 3oz on January 9 via C-section, after Jackie experienced health complications and following three tragic miscarriages.

Celebrity X Factor star Ben and his second wife Jackie - who married in August 2019 just two months after they started dating - are also parents to daughter Farrah, three, who they welcomed together in 2021.

Ben is also the father of Aoife, 11, and Tadgh, nine, who he has with his ex-wife, The Saturdays singer Una Healy, 42.

Ben Foden's wife Jackie has given birth to their second child and shared that they've named their newborn daughter Olympia, nicknamed Pia

Celebrity X Factor star Ben and his second wife Jackie - who married in August 2019 just two months after they started dating - are also parents to daughter Farrah, three (pictured)

Ben is also the father of Aoife, 11, and Tadgh, nine, who he has with his ex-wife, The Saturdays singer Una Healy , 42 (pictured two weeks ago)

Announcing the new via OK! magazine, Ben said: 'Olympia – or, as we call her, Pia – is her mum's double. I'm incredibly lucky.'

Jackie explained that she ended up having a planned C-section with Olympia, because she was diagnosed with cholestasis during the pregnancy.

Cholestasis of pregnancy is a condition that slows or stops the normal flow of bile in the gallbladder, which can cause severe itching.

She said: 'I could barely move towards the end, so I was happy to have her out. I was limping because I had tendonitis in my hip. Plus, I was itching like crazy, especially during the night so I wasn’t getting any sleep.'

'I tried to wait as long as possible but the doctors advised me that 9 January was as far as I could go. Looking back, I'm glad I didn't wait any longer. She was 8lb 3oz; if we had let her go full-term they said she'd have been over 10lb!'

Tragically, Jackie also told the publication how she and Ben struggled to have Olympia, revealing: 'We also had three miscarriages before Olympia.

'We started trying to get pregnant around August 2022, then tried again in November, then March 2023 and then April 2023 with Olympia.'

Jackie explained that she ended up having a planned C-section with Olympia, because she was diagnosed with cholestasis during the pregnancy

Rugby player Ben and American businesswoman Jackie infamously tied the knot onboard a luxury yacht in 2019 on the same day his divorce from Saturdays singer Una Healy was finalised.

Una and Ben were married for six years but split when it was revealed that Ben had been unfaithful. He later admitted: 'I was the one who committed adultery... It's not ideal but we're very amicable.'

If you’ve been affected contact The Miscarriage Association on 01924 200799 Mon-Fri, 9am-4pm or email info@miscarriageassociation.org.uk