David Tennant arrived on the red carpet with his beloved wife Georgia ahead of his hosting duties at the 77th EE British Academy Film Awards held at the Royal Festival Hall on Sunday.

The Doctor Who star, 52, wiped away his nerves with a grinning smile as he posed up a storm for the cameras before heading into the ceremony.

David, who is hosting the awards ceremony, looked incredibly handsome in a vibrant navy and gold embroidered suit, while donning patent black shoes.

The presenter put on a loved-up display with his doting wife, 39, as they posed arm-in-arm on the carpet.

Georgia looked incredibly glamorous in a gold caped-pleated gown and added a simplistic black clutch bag to accessorise.

David Tennant, 52, arrived on the red carpet with his beloved wife Georgia, 39, ahead of his presenting duties at the 77th EE BAFTAs held at the Royal Festival Hall on Sunday

David looked more than loved-up as he posed arm-in-arm with his doting wife at the star-studded ceremony

David will host this year's ceremony live from Royal Festival Hall at London's Southbank Centre, with an array of guest presenters on hand to deliver awards throughout the night.

Actress and singer Hannah Waddingham will treat guests to an exclusive live music performance, while Sophie Ellis-Bextor will perform her iconic hit Murder on the Dancefloor after it enjoyed a new lease of life in Emerald Fennell's BAFTA nominated Saltburn.

Elsewhere the Guyanese-born, London-based film curator June Givanni will receive an Outstanding British Contribution to Cinema Award.

Actress Samantha Morton's lengthy career will also be rewarded with a BAFTA Fellowship, the arts charity’s highest accolade and handed out in recognition of outstanding and exceptional contribution to film, games or television.

Tennant, who is hosting the star-studded ceremony for the first time, recently admitted he was bewildered by the prospect of compering to so many people.

He told Variety: 'I don’t know what to expect, if I’m honest with you. The whole thing just feels like one of those experiences you say “yes” to because it would be churlish not to. But what an amazing thing to be asked to do. What a privilege.'

The Scottish actor also insisted he will adopt a softer approach to the abrasive style used to great effect by Ricky Gervais at the Golden Globes.

'I think the BAFTA mood is supportive and friendly,' he added. 'Ricky Gervais is brilliant at what he does, but that wouldn’t be my style.

The Doctor Who star wiped away his nerves with a grinning smile as he posed up a storm for the cameras before heading into the ceremony

He looked incredibly handsome in a vibrant navy and gold embroidered suit, while donning patent black shoes

THE BAFTA WINNERS AT A GLANCE Best Film - Oppenheimer Best Director - Christopher Nolan, Oppenheimer Supporting Actor - Robert Downey Jr, Oppenheimer Leading Actor - Cillian Murphy, Oppenheimer Leading Actress - Emma Stone, Poor Things Supporting Actress - Da'vine Joy Randolph, The Holdovers Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Georgia looked incredibly glamorous in a gold caped-pleated gown and added a simplistic black clutch bag to accessorise

David will host this year's ceremony live from Royal Festival Hall at London's Southbank Centre, with an array of guest presenters on hand to deliver awards throughout the night

'I don’t think I’ve quite got that sort of approach, so I think you just have to kind of be who you are, really. But we’ve got some good material that won’t leave anyone feeling got at.'

Tennant revealed he was in complete shock when he received an email asking if he wanted to host the annual awards show.

Speaking to the Radio Times, he said: 'Right now, a month out, it feels like a bit of a thrill and a lark.

'An extraordinary opportunity to do something very unusual and exciting. People keep asking me how nervous I am, how I’m preparing for it and so on, and that’s beginning to make me nervous.

'Who knows why they’ve asked me! I just thought I’d say yes before they realised they’ve sent the email to the wrong person.'

BAFTA CEO Jane Millichip confirmed the academy was 'over the moon' that Tennant would be hosting the ceremony.

She said: 'He is deservedly beloved by British and international audiences, alike.

'His warmth, charm and mischievous wit will make it a must-watch show next month for our guests at the Royal Festival Hall and the millions of people watching at home.'

Tennant, who is hosting the star-studded ceremony for the first time, recently admitted he was bewildered by the prospect of compering to so many people

He told Variety : 'I don’t know what to expect, if I’m honest with you. The whole thing just feels like one of those experiences you say “yes” to because it would be churlish not to. But what an amazing thing to be asked to do. What a privilege.'

The Scottish actor also insisted he will adopt a softer approach to the abrasive style used to great effect by Ricky Gervais at the Golden Globes

'I think the BAFTA mood is supportive and friendly,' he added. 'Ricky Gervais is brilliant at what he does, but that wouldn’t be my style'

Tennant revealed he was in complete shock when he received an email asking if he wanted to host the annual awards show

The British Academy of Film and Television Arts is a world-leading independent arts charity that draws attention to the best of film, games and television and supports the development of creative talent in the United Kingdom and the wide world.

The organisation also celebrates excellence and nurtures fresh talent through year-round workshops, scholarships, masterclasses, mentoring schemes and lectures.

The nominees for the BAFTA EE Rising Star Award were announced on January 10, with the official longlist of nominations unveiled on January 18.

This year's ceremony is two hours long and will be broadcast from 7:00pm until 9:00pm on BBC One and will available to stream on BBC iPlayer.