A nine-bedroom castle in Connecticut - which comes complete with its own moat, elevator, and glass tower is back on the market - but for half the price of its original sale price it was listed at just two years ago.

Set on 400 acres of land, the castle is currently owned by Christopher Mark who came up with the idea, designed the plans for it, and had it built in the early 2000s.

Located in Woodstock, about 40 miles from Hartford, the extravagant 18,000-square-foot home caught the attention of the internet in 2022 when his daughter Christina Mark started sharing clips of herself inside it and posting it to TikTok.

The castle has been on and off the market; it was previously listed for $60 million in February 2022.

The idea for the castle came about after Christina and her sister inspired their father to build the fairytale-like dwelling.

'This property is an optimal fit for a person who wants a lifestyle change: not an ordinary run-of-the-mill home or estate, something unique and exceptional,' the listing agent said

In one of the bathrooms sits a large set of jacuzzies with a waterfall, which Christina regularly posts videos and pictures in

The castle, which sits on 400-acres of land, is owned by father Christopher Mark - who came up with the idea, designed the plans for it, and had it built in the early 2000s

The owner's daughters inspired their father to build it, after they dressed up like princesses

The family moved into the luxurious mansion in 2010

Owner Christoper Mark worked with architects and incorporated his own ideas into the final structure

He furnished the castle with many items from Europe, while other pieces were custom-made specifically for the grand home in his factory

Elsewhere on the property is an at-home bar, a recording studio, a raised stage, a full auditorium, a maids' apartment, and towers rising 126 feet into the sky - including one made out of all glass

The 18,000-square-foot castle has nine bedrooms in total, as well as seven full bathrooms and three half bathrooms.

Homeowners can move between the seven floors via a hand-carved wooden spiral staircase.

Meals can be enjoyed in a medieval-style dining room. Heated radiant floors run throughout the home, not to mention there are 12 fireplaces for those craving some winter warmth.

In summer time, central air flows throughout the home including the towers, one of which is made out of glass, that rise 126 feet into the sky, according to its Zillow listing.

The castle spans across seven floors, with a large spiral staircase taking you from the top to the bottom, as well as an elevator for those who don't feel like walking.

The property includes a 30-acre peninsula along tree-lined Potter Pond, which was dug specifically to build the castle's moat and nearby pond.

A pair of castellated stone bridges are the only way to cross it, according to the listing.

The wood inlaid floors throughout the castle were built with over 25 species of hardwoods imported from around the world.

Throughout the lavish home, there are many unique sculptures together with stained glass windows.

The eccentric home also includes a huge jacuzzi hot tub complete with a rock waterfall, tree trunk supports in the master bathroom, as well as a massive domed observation room with a glass floor which offers views into the master bedroom 40 feet below.

The castle also features several secret passageways as well as a dungeon.

In the 4,500-square-foot basement, there's an at-home bar, a recording studio and a fully-functional theater, with a stage, lighting and music for those living behind the castle walls to live out their dreams.

Elsewhere on the property is a maids' apartment, which the family would use to house their in-laws. At one time there was even a petting zoo, with two camels still on property.

At night time the castle looks particularly spooky

The 18,000-square-foot castle has nine bedrooms in total, as well as seven full bathrooms and three half bathrooms

The grand entranceway is certainly fit for a king or queen, containing two large elephant statues and a curtain draping across the archway that leads into the kitchen

As for the spacious kitchen, it's filled with up-to-date appliances as well as a column-turned-spice rack, two different ovens, ample counter space, and an island in the center

The wood inlaid floors throughout the castle were built with over 25 species of hardwoods imported from around the world

A hand-carved wooden spiral staircase located inside the castle, complete with a tree-lined mural

While the castle at might appear as though it was constructed hundreds of years ago, it was actually completed in the 21st century.

'We bought the property in 2001, and then started building in 2003. It was mostly complete by 2010,' Christina told Insider.

She revealed: 'My sister and I, when we were younger, we would dress up like princesses, and he just wanted our dream to come true.

'Our ancestors have castles in Ireland, so we wanted to keep the idea going in our generation now too.'

Chris, as well as his daughters, dress up as royalty from time to time and even have regal robes and a golden coach that Cinderella might have used.

They moved into the luxurious mansion when she was about seven or eight-years-old. And according to Christina, her dad played a hand in almost every aspect of building the castle - working with architects and incorporating his own ideas into the final structure.

A local Connecticut boat builder who specializes in wooden yacht restoration was employed to hand-carve all of the doors and moldings.

Chris also purchased a nearby iron foundry for its metal-working equipment to create wrought-iron gates, staircases and windows.

Artisans from around the world were hired to complete the castle's construction.

During the seven-year build process, more than 100 artisans, mainly from Russia, Poland and the Czech Republic, were flown-in to help with the construction.

Christina is pictured alongside her father in his own regal robes

Christopher is a descendant of steel tycoon Clayton Mark. He founded his own figurine company called Mark Miniatures, which have been sold in Bergdorf Goodman and other big retail stores over the years. He is pictured with his two pet camels

Her doting father pictured his daughters in in princess dresses - but she prefers armor

The castle even comes compete with a Cinderella coach

As for his profession, he founded his own figurine company called Mark Miniatures, which have been sold in Bergdorf Goodman and other big retail stores over the years.

He furnished the castle with many items from Europe, while other pieces were custom-made specifically for the grand home in his factory.

'They were handcrafted in my dad's factory in Putnam. And that's where he made all of the parts for the castle, in his metal and wood shop,' Christina said.

'When we were younger, we had to open our mouth[s] really wide, so someone could carve our face into clay,' she recalled.

'The Woodstock Castle offers the opportunity of a lifetime to own a dream come true,' the listing reads.

'[It's a] stunning one of a kind property built to amaze and capture the imagination of the individual who relishes outstanding craftsmanship and superior design.'

'There's a bunch of features that I love, but probably the most shocking is the glass dome at the top,' gushed Christina.

'Because when you're up there, it's all glass and you can see three floors down because there's glass in the three floors below it, too.'

Throughout the lavish home, which spans across seven floors, there are many unique sculptures - some of which were inspired by Christina and her sister

Outside, there is a 30-acre pond, as well as a moat and a pool

A nine bedroom castle in Connecticut - which comes complete with its own moat - is back on sale for $29 million after being turned into a viral TikTok sensation by the 19-year-old who grew up there but has now moved to college

'Owning a castle may not be for everyone, but who wouldn’t enjoy the life of a king and queen?' John asked

Chris Mark, great-grandson of Chicago steel tycoon Clayton Mark Sr, built the fairytale-style castle in 2003 for his two daughters who liked to dress-up as princesses

The castle has been on the market since 2014, when it was originally listed for $45 million.

Chris eventually slashed the price to $39 million, before removing it in 2016. He then put it back on sale towards the end of last year for $29 million.

Listing agent John Pizzi of Randall Realtors said Chris has plans to use money from the sale to build another castle.

John said that 'the owner is relocating out of state and he thought he would build another castle, and in talking to architects and engineers' he realized he would need in the ballpark of $60 million to construct another medieval-style mansion.

Christina explained that she and her sister have left home and her dad is ready to make a change.

'We're moving out, and he doesn't want to just be there by himself if we're not using it.'

