On Monday night, Manchester City stormed to a comfortable 3-1 victory over Brentford as they maintained their Premier League title push.

Phil Foden grabbed his second career hat-trick on the night, after scoring one just before half-time and two more in the second period at the GTech Community Stadium.

Neal Maupay had given the hosts a surprise lead early on, after sneaking behind the City defence, but it wasn't enough for the Bees on the night.

City moved up to second in the table - just two points behind Liverpool with a game in hand - while Brentford remian in 15th.

Here, Mail Sport's JACK GAUGHAN provides player ratings.

Man City secured a 3-1 win over Brentford as they maintained their Premier League title push

Star man Phil Foden scored a hat-trick on the night to wrap up all three points for the visitors

Your browser does not support iframes.

Brentford (3-5-2)

Flekken 8; Collins 6, Pinnock 6, Mee 7; Roerslev 6 (Lewis-Potter 76), Jensen 6.5 (Damsgaard 77), Norgaard 6.5, Janelt 6 (Yarmoliuk 76), Reguilon 7 (Ajer 79); Toney 6.5, Maupay 7 (Baptiste 90)

Subs not used: Strakosha, Zanka, Brierley, Fredrick

Manchester City (4-1-4-1)

Ederson – 6

A few hairy moments in the first half when coming to deal with short balls back in his direction.

Kyle Walker - 7

Back into the side and Walker’s athleticism gave City an edge down that right-hand side. Decent use of the ball.

Ruben Dias – 7

Seemed a little shaken by Ivan Toney early doors. Huge block at 2-1 though and put his body on the line.

Kyle Walker's (R) athleticism proved a useful asset for the visitors on Monday evening

Nathan Ake – 7

Cleverly blocked off by Toney for the opener before becoming more composed as the game wore on.

Josko Gvardiol – 7.5

One of his better nights in a City shirt. More compact defensively and did the basics when progressing forward.

Rodri – 7.5

Pep Guardiola asked a lot of the central midfielder on a night that was always going to be full of transitions.

Bernardo Silva - 7

Neat and tidy on the right wing. Main function was to engineer enough space for Kevin De Bruyne to do his work.

Kevin De Bruyne – 8.5

Another very encouraging display during the first few weeks of his comeback. Dictates proceedings effortlessly.

Kevin De Bruyne produced yet another brilliant performance in the heart of attack for City

Foden celebrates after scoring his second-ever career hat-trick for the reigning champions

Julian Alvarez – 8

Busy in behind Erling Haaland and gets through enough work to justify playing in a slightly deeper position.

Phil Foden – 9.5

Second-ever hat-trick and thoroughly deserved for his recent performances. Growing into one of this team’s real stars and more decisive than ever.

Erling Haaland – 7

Should have buried a golden first-half chance but link play looked sharp and a smart assist for Foden’s third.

City talisman Erling Haaland passed up a glorious opportunity in the first-half of the match

Subs

Jeremy Doku (for Silva, 71) – 6

Mateo Kovacic (for Haaland, 86)

Subs not used: Ortega, Stones, Kovacic, Grealish, Akanji, Nunes, Bobb, Lewis