Ariana Grande's ex-husband Dalton Gomez enjoyed a romantic getaway to Los Cabos with his new girlfriend, actress Maika Monroe.

The couple were spotted sharing smooches as they lounged in the sunshine together on Thursday.

Dalton, 28, went shirtless, showing off his many tattoos, and carried a beverage as he strode about the deck beside his lady love.

Maika, 30, showed off her fab figure in a colorful bikini and shielded her eyes with stylish sunglasses.

The outing comes four months after Dalton finalized his divorce from Ariana.

Ariana Grande's ex-husband Dalton Gomez enjoyed a romantic getaway to Los Cabos with his new girlfriend, actress Maika Monroe

The couple were spotted sharing smooches as they lounged in the sunshine together

The Into You hitmaker, 30, quickly settled their divorce proceedings, as the pair had a prenup in place, reported TMZ. She filed for divorce only three weeks prior to the finalization.

According to the settlement, the real estate agent received a check from the Grammy winner - with the payment being worth a total of $1,250,000 and also tax-free.

The former couple will also split the 'net proceeds' when their Los Angeles home sells, and Grande will additionally pay $25k of Dalton's attorney fees.

Despite the pair's divorce being finalized, a source informed the entertainment tabloid that there is no bad blood between Ariana and Gomez - who tied the knot in 2021.

'There is still a strong mutual love and respect between Ariana and Dalton and they wanted to make sure everything was done right in lockstep with one another,' the insider expressed.

The former Nickelodeon star filed her divorce paperwork on September 18 - with Dalton also filing the same day.

In documents previously obtained by TMZ, Ariana's lawyer, Laura Wasser, had cited the reason for their divorce as 'irreconcilable differences' with the date of separation listed as February 20, 2023.

Sources informed the outlet that all was 'worked out' between the former couple 'before going to the courthouse' and added the actress plans to 'cut Dalton a check' to officially dissolve the marriage.

Dalton went shirtless, showing off his many tattoos, and carried a beverage as he strode about the deck beside his lady love

The outing comes four months after Dalton finalized his divorce from Ariana

Maika showed off her fab figure in a colorful bikini and shielded her eyes with stylish sunglasses

They laid out their towels in their lounge area

Dalton affectionately wrapped his hand around Maika's waist

They enjoyed refreshments for their sun-soaked outing

The pair notably filed for divorce months after their listed date of separation, and an insider explained to TMZ that the reasoning was so that they could 'iron out details and settle.'

According to the source, Grande and Gomez have 'no hard feelings' and added 'they've been really caring and respectful of one another every step of this process.'

The Grammy winner and the real estate agent first began dating in January 2020 and the pair became engaged in December the same year.

In May 2021, the two said 'I do' during an intimate yet romantic wedding ceremony at her Montecito home. However, last year in July, news of their shock split came to light.

They gazed at one another

The couple appeared to be relaxing in a pool

Dalton gave his lady love his undivided attention

The couple have been linked since October 2023, when DeuxMoi obtained a photo of the pair 'packing on the PDA' at Jumbo's in Hollywood

Dalton showed off his many tattoos as he went shirtless

Ariana is now dating her Wicked co-star Ethan Slater.

Dalton became romantically linked with Maika just days after his divorce from Ariana was finalized. In October, gossip site DeuxMoi uploaded a photo of the duo 'packing on the PDA' at Jumbo's in Hollywood.

In July, TMZ reported that Dalton had been back on the dating scene 'over the last few months.'

Maika - who is known for starring in projects such as It Follows - was last romantically linked to Stranger Things actor, Joe Keery.

The lovebirds dried off with towels

In July, TMZ reported that Dalton had been back on the dating scene 'over the last few months'

Maika - who is known for starring in projects such as It Follows - was last romantically linked to Stranger Things actor, Joe Keery

Dalton was married to Grande for two years before their divorce

The pair had been together since 2017, however, speculation arose that the two were no longer together last year in September after Joe dropped an album titled, Decide.

One track, Go For It, contained lyrics that seemingly hinted at a possible split, such as, 'One week and four years, you know my ways, I know your fears/ But then there's a misunderstanding, but what will it take to hear me out?'

Monroe and Keery were also last spotted attending the Vanity Fair Oscars party together in March 2022. A few months later, the actress was notably absent from the Stranger Things season four premiere - which she had attended in the past.