Each year, Florence attracts millions of tourists eager to gaze upon its stunning architecture and monuments.

But amid the Instagramming throngs of visitors lurk hustlers desperate to rid them of their euros.

To help tourists keep hold of their currency, travel vlogger Sam Mayfair has revealed a popular scam to watch out for.

The 39-year-old from Surrey shared the useful advice on his TikTok account, warning his followers of fake artists operating in the city centre.

Travel vlogger Sam Mayfair from Surrey revealed a popular scam to be aware of when visiting Florence, Italy (above)

In the TikTok video, as Sam explores the busy Piazza del Duomo outside Florence Cathedral, he reveals a common scam called the 'Italian Street Art Hustle'.

He says: 'One of the things you need to be aware of in Italy are street hustlers, especially the guys selling the art.

'Now they're not really interested in selling what they have. They're more interested in getting you to walk on their art.'

Revealing the scam to his followers, Sam shows a man standing in the busy square with photos of 'artwork' on the ground.

The scammer cleverly positions himself beside street vendors - including artists and caricaturists.

Sam's created a video showing a scammer selling paintings outside Florence's cathedral (pictured to the left). According to Sam, they will line up their paintings on the ground in the hope that tourists will stand on them. They then make a scene and demand money

In the video, Sam shows the scammers cleverly positioned near genuine artists selling paintings and caricaturists

Sam explains: 'They will set up in a busy location and pathway, put down maybe five or six pictures in the hope that you won't be paying attention and will step on it.

'And as soon as you step on it, they'll start to make a scene and demand money from you.'

He adds: 'Believe it or not, it's very easy to do, especially in busy locations like here in central Florence - so just watch out.'

Sam told MailOnline Travel: 'Florence is an amazingly beautiful city and I highly recommend visiting for the culture and beauty. But just like most tourist attractions around Italy, keep your wits about you as pickpockets and street scams are everywhere.'

To help further identify these hustlers he says 'genuine artists' tend to be set up away from throngs of people and have prices on their work.

He adds: 'Unfortunately, these scammers have lookouts and work very hard to avoid police detection.'

Sam says Florence isn't the only Italian city to attract scammers. He experienced them outside the Vatican City (pictured left) and at the Trevi Fountain in Rome (pictured right)

The travel vlogger claims the best thing to do if you accidentally step on these pictures is to 'walk away or call the police if they are threatening you'.

Unfortunately, Florence isn't the only Italian city to attract scammers. Sam says: 'I came across scammers in Rome and outside the Vatican City.'

The one most tourists fall for, he claims, is the 'free bracelet scam', where scammers will try to tie bracelets that are hard to get off onto tourists' wrists and demand money from them.

But, he says: 'The Trevi Fountain is the place you are most likely to get pickpockets so keep an eye out and stay alert. They are very good at what they do!'

For more from Sam, visit him on YouTube and TikTok.