Lena Dunham cuddled up Stephen Fry as they attended the Another End premiere during Berlin's 74th Film Festival on Friday.

The actress, 37, stunned in a semi-sheer gown which boasted a plunging neckline and teased a glimpse of gorgeous curves beneath.

Lena's frock was adorned with pale blue satin ribbons and she wore it with a pair of matching opera gloves.

Sweeping her brunette locks into a chic up do, the Girls star completed the look with a pair of eye-catching metallic heels.

Meanwhile Stephen, 66, cut a dapper figure in a navy tailored suit which he layered over a crisp white shirt and polka dot tie.

Lena Dunham, 37, cuddled up Stephen Fry, 66, as they attended the Other End premiere during Berlin 's 74th Film Festival on Friday

The actress stunned in a semi-sheer gown which boasted a plunging neckline and teased a glimpse of gorgeous curves beneath

The science-fiction movie stars Gael García Bernal and Olivia Williams and is directed by The Wait's Piero Messina.

The offical synopsis reads: 'After Sal loses his wife, his sister suggests he try Another End, a technology that implants the conscious of a deceased person into another person's body to aid in the grieving process'.

It comes after it was revealed Lena had joined forces with her British musician husband to write a new TV show...about a woman married to an unsuccessful musician.

Too Much is being created for Netflix by the actress and Luis Felber, who she married in 2021.

A synopsis for the project, being filmed next year, indicates it's an ex-pat romcom about whether Americans and Brits can speak the same language.

The series stars Megan Stalter as Jessica, a New York workaholic in her mid-thirties, reeling from a broken relationship that she thought would last forever and slowly isolating everyone she knows.

When every block in New York tells a story of her own bad behaviour, the only solution is to take a job in London, where she plans to live a life of solitude like a Bronte sister.

But when she meets Felix (Will Sharpe) – who is less Hugh Grant in Notting Hill and more Hugh Grant's drunken roommate – she finds that their unusual connection is impossible to ignore, even as it creates more problems than it solves.

Meanwhile Stephen cut a dapper figure in a navy tailored suit which he layered over a crisp white shirt and polka dot tie

The iconic actor appeared in great spirits as he took to the red carpet

Olivia Williams who stars in the movie looked nothing short of incredible as she posed for the cameras

The British actress stunned in a quirky suit which she layered over a high-collared white shirt

The science-fiction movie stars Gael García Bernal (pictured) and is directed by The Wait's Piero Messina.

Now they have to ask themselves: do Americans and Brits actually speak the same language?

Lena said of her new project: 'This is a show that is very close to my heart – created with my husband Luis, cast with my favourite actors – the geniuses that are Meg and Will, along with a bevy of friends – and partnering again with Working Title, who are behind the romantic comedies that formed me.

'Netflix has been so deeply supportive of the vision, which is to create a romantic comedy that makes us root for love, brings joy but also has the jagged edges of life.'

Lena and Luis tied the knot in London in 2022 in a surprise ceremony.

She revealed that they got married after only knowing each other seven months, but does not advise everyone to do the same.

She said: 'We got engaged after four months and married after seven months, which is not something I recommend to everybody but it worked for us.'