Coleen Rooney cut a smart figure as she headed to her friend's 60th Birthday party in Manchester on Friday.

The WAG, 37, looked effortlessly chic in a navy blue suit featuring gold detailing for her friend Julie Perry's celebration.

The success of Coleen's Wagatha Christie documentary and her millionaire status, appears to be paying off as the star carried a huge present to the bash.

Coleen has become the main family breadwinner after her husband Wayne was sacked as Birmingham manager in December.

The mother-of-four teamed her power suit with a sophisticated beige jumper and a pair of towering chrome stilettos.

Coleen Rooney cut a smart figure as she headed to her friend's 60th Birthday party in Manchester on Friday

The WAG, 37, looked effortlessly chic in a navy blue suit featuring gold detailing for her friend Julie Perry's celebration

She accessorised her incredible look with a gold clutch and a pair of huge gold earrings.

Coleen didn't let the threat of rain dampen her spirits as she came prepared with a large gold umbrella.

The WAG stepped out amid claims she and Wayne are set to do a fly-on-the-wall docuseries.

The former footballer and the WAG , have had a rollercoaster year from Coleen's Disney+ success with her Wagatha Christie documentary to Wayne being sacked last month from his job as Birmingham City manager.

Now, both are said to be plotting their next step after seeing the success of Tyson and Paris Fury 's Netflix hit At Home With The Furys.

The couple could spark a bidding war from streaming platforms on a show that would provide an insight into family life with their four sons.

'The couple have both starred in docs for different streamers and the feedback from viewers has been they’re most intrigued by what life is like behind the doors of Chez Rooney,' a source told The Sun.

'Wayne and Coleen live in a sprawling £20million mansion in leafy Cheshire with six bedrooms, a wine cellar and accommodation on their 40 acre estate to accommodate 14 horses.

The mother-of-four teamed her power suit with a sophisticated beige jumper a pair of towering chrome stilettos

She accessorised her incredible look with a gold clutch and a pair of huge gold earrings. Preparing for the worst, Coleen attended the glitzy event armed with a large gold umbrella

It came as Coleen still remains the breadwinner for the family as it's been an eventful start to the new year for the Rooneys after Wayne was sacked as Birmingham manage

Earlier this week, Coleen shared a sweet Valentine's tribute to her family on Wednesday as she posted a montage of photos with Wayne and their four children

'Then there’s the fact they’ll soon be navigating the minefield of having four lads aged five to 13 growing up with famous parents and the luxuries that come with that.'

Tyson and Paris' Netflix series was a runaway hit on Netflix. It drew 2.6million viewers on the first episode which followed the life of the British champion, his wife Paris and their seven children.

Former England forward Wayne was fired after only 13 weeks in charge as Birmingham City manager, following a terrible run of nine defeats in 15 games.

The former England captain is thought to have been on much less than the £1.5million per year salary that was initially suggested, and departed the club along with coach Carl Robinson.

Coleen, meanwhile, has remained the main 'family breadwinner' since the football legend's exit.

The mother-of-four was sued by Rebekah Vardy for libel but went on to win the case, with a judge ruling in her favour.

She then banked £800,000 from rival Rebekah in November 2022, and is now expected to start exploring new opportunities following the success of her Disney Wagatha Christie TV documentary.

A source told The Sun: 'Coleen and Wayne were in no rush for the Wagatha Christie money but now Wayne has lost his job it will come in handy.

'Coleen received the payment from Becky after she gave her an extension to give her more time to get the cash together. Coleen is the breadwinner at the moment and the Wagatha cash will certainly tide them over for a while.'

Coleen, who is the author of several books, also explained in a recent interview: 'The kids have always been my priority, they always will be, but I'd like to see what's out there for me.

'First, we'll get through Christmas, that's a big family affair - everything I do is a family affair. Then I'll sit down with my management and map out what's next. But I'm going to wait. I like to take my time; I like to organise and be prepared.' .