Jersey Shore: Family Vacation stars Jenni 'JWoww' Farley and Mike 'The Situation' Sorrentino reunited outside of their long-running reality show at the 49th annual People's Choice Awards on Sunday.

JWoww, 37, and The Situation, 41, rocked contrasting ensembles as they arrived on the red carpet at the Barker Hangar in Santa Monica, California.

The costars can currently be seen on the Jersey Shore sequel's ongoing seventh season, which began airing on February 8. It marks the first time that the entire original cast has been featured on a single season of the revived show.

Jenni looked sleek in a black dress that hugged her curves, whereas Mike stood out with a loud patterned shirt.

She was decked out in a single-shoulder look that was lightly ruched around her midriff and wrinkled on the long sleeves.

Jersey Shore: Family Vacation stars Jenni 'JWoww' Farley, 37, and Mike 'The Situation' Sorrentino, 41, reunited outside of their long-running reality show at the 49th annual People's Choice Awards on Sunday

Jenni looked sleek in a black single-shoulder dress that hugged her curves. It was lightly ruched around her midriff and wrinkled on the long sleeves

The dress' skirt ended just above her ankles, highlighting a rainbow-colored set of strappy open-toe heels that elevated her 5ft7in stature.

She completed her awards-show look by styling her dark hair in a low-slung ponytail with a middle part, and she added a touch of luxury with a silver wristwatch that she wore over her sleeve for an unusual display.

Mike's outfit was as over the top as Jenni's was reserved.

He wore a black button-up shirt that he left untucked that was covered in opulent gold designs.

He it unbuttoned at the collar, and he complemented it with simple black trousers and black loafers decorated with gold designs on the tongue.

The Situation had the sides of his hair buzzed close, while it towered above like a slightly tilting flat top, and he accessorized with a cool pair of aviator sunglasses.

Barbie and Oppenheimer (AKA 'Barbenheimer') have ruled this awards season, and tonight's show is no exception, as they earned the most nods in the movie categories.

Barbie, which stars Margot Robbie and Ryan Reynolds, is the top nominee with nine nominations, including individual nods for its two leading stars.

People's Choice Awards 2024 Winners At a Glance

Music Male artist of the year: Jung Kook (WINNER) Female artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Male country artist of the year: Jelly Roll (WINNER) Female country artist of the year: Lainey Wilson (WINNER) Male Latin artist of the year: Bad Bunny (WINNER) Female Latin artist of the year: Shakira (WINNER) Pop artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Hip-hop artist of the year: Nicki Minaj (WINNER) R&B artist of the year: Beyoncé (WINNER) New artist of the year: Ice Spice (WINNER) Group/duo of the year: Stray Kids (WINNER) Song of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, “Vampire” (WINNER) Album of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, Guts (WINNER) Collaboration song of the year: Nicki Minaj & Ice Spice with Aqua, “Barbie World” (WINNER) Concert tour of the year: Taylor Swift, The Eras Tour (WINNER) Movies Movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Action movie of the year: The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Drama movie of the year: Oppenheimer (WINNER) Male movie star of the year: Ryan Gosling, Barbie (WINNER) Female movie star of the year: Margot Robbie, Barbie (WINNER) Margot Robbie is a leading contender for female movie star of the year for Barbie Action movie star of the year: Rachel Zegler, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie star of the year: Jennifer Lawrence, No Hard Feelings (WINNER) Drama movie star of the year Jenna Ortega, Scream VI (WINNER) Movie performance of the year America Ferrera, Barbie (WINNER) TV Show of the year: Grey’s Anatomy (WINNER) Comedy show of the year: Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Drama show of the year: The Last of Us (WINNER) Sci-fi/fantasy show of the year: Loki (WINNER) Reality show of the year: The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition show of the year: The Voice (WINNER) Bingeworthy show of the year: The Summer I Turned Pretty (WINNER) Male TV star of the year: Pedro Pascal, The Last of Us (WINNER) Female TV star of the year: Selena Gomez, Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Comedy TV star of the year: Jeremy Allen White, The Bear (WINNER) Drama TV star of the year: Jennifer Aniston, The Morning Show (WINNER) TV performance of the year Billie Eilish, Swarm (WINNER) Reality TV star of the year Khloé Kardashian, The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition contestant of the year Ariana Madix, Dancing with the Stars (WINNER) Daytime talk show of the year The Kelly Clarkson Show (WINNER) Nighttime talk show of the year The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon (WINNER) Host of the year Jimmy Fallon, That’s My Jam (WINNER) Pop Culture Social celebrity of the year Taylor Swift (WINNER) Comedy act of the year Chris Rock, Selective Outrage (WINNER) Athlete of the year Travis Kelce (WINNER) Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Mike's outfit was as over the top as Jenni's was reserved. He wore a black button-up shirt that he left untucked that was covered in opulent gold designs, plus black pants and loafers

Jenni also rocked rainbow-colored strappy open-toe heels, and she added a touch of luxury with a silver wristwatch that she wore over her sleeve for an unusual display

The costars can currently be seen on the Jersey Shore sequel's ongoing seventh season, which began airing on February 8

Barbie and Oppenheimer have ruled awards season, and tonight's show is no exception, as they earned the most nods in the movie categories. The Christopher Nolan–directed Oppenheimer has six nominations, including nods for Cillian Murphy and Florence Pugh

Meanwhile, the Christopher Nolan–directed Oppenheimer follows behind with six nominations, including recognitions for Cillian Murphy and Florence Pugh.

Two weeks after her record breaking run at the Grammy Awards, Taylor Swift leads all musicians with five nominations.

She was nominated for a range of categories including for her songs, social media presence and even her The Eras Tour concert film, which was a massive global hit at the box office.

Taylor was in interesting company, as rapper Nicki Minaj and country musicians Luke Combs and Morgan Wallen also earned five nods each.

When it comes to television, Only Murders In The Building earned the most nominations, including recognitions for Selena Gomez, Meryl Streep and Steve Martin.

The reality show of the year category will be one to watch, as Vanderpump Rules will be the favorite coming off the Scandoval storyline, and it will be facing heavy competition from other nominees, including Hulu's The Kardashians.

The event will be hosted by Marvel Cinematic Universe star Simu Liu, who is best known for his roles in the sitcom Kim’s Convenience, as well as in Marvel’s Shang-Chi And The Legend Of The Ten Rings.

He also portrayed one of the several Kens in the aforementioned $1.4billion blockbuster Barbie.

As hosting during award season has been a major talking point, the 34-year-old Chinese–Canadian actor told USA Today: 'It’s not about slandering anyone.

Two weeks after her record breaking run at the Grammy Awards Taylor Swift leads all musicians wife five nominations; she is pictured in March 2023

When it comes to television Only Murders In The Building earned the most nominations including recognitions for Selena Gomez, Meryl Streep (pictured) and Steve Martin

The event will be hosted by Marvel Cinematic Universe star Simu Liu (pictured in January) who is best known for his roles in sitcom Kim’s Convenience as well as in Marvel’s Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings

'It’s not about getting the most offensive joke that you can possibly get away with. It’s not about being the guy that’s cutting other people down.'

The event will also see major presenters including musicians Victoria Monet and Kane Brown.

Kylie Minogue, Lainey Wilson and Lenny Kravitz are also set to perform on the telecast.

NBC and E! will air a two-hour live telecast of the 2024 People’s Choice Awards ceremony on on Sunday, February 18, at 8 p.m. ET. The show can also be streamed on Peacock.