The Irwin family welcomed three 'new additions' to their family on Saturday.

Taking to Instagram, Terri Irwin, 59, posted a photo of her son Robert, 20, with three adorable chickens.

'Our new Jurassic chickens. Meet Waffle, Mochi, and Cindy. Training is going well,' she captioned the post.

Robert channeled American actor Chris Pratt by squatting with his arms out in a reference to a scene from Jurassic World.

Fans were quick to comment on the post, with one writing: 'This is the best picture ever!! I'm going to show my children that this is Jurassic World.'

The Irwin family welcomed three 'new additions' to their family on Saturday. Taking to Instagram, Terri Irwin , 59, posted a photo of her son Robert, 20, with three adorable chickens

'This is tooo adorable!!' wrote another.

It comes after Robert and his girlfriend Rorie Buckey, 19, announced their split after almost two years of dating.

The pair made the shock announcement in a joint statement shared to Rorie's Instagram story on Saturday morning.

'Our new Jurassic chickens. Meet Waffle, Mochi, and Cindy. Training is going well,' Terri captioned the post

'We wanted to share that we have decided to go our separate ways but profoundly appreciate all the time spent together and wish one another all the very best into the future,' the statement read.

Since sharing the devastating news, Robert has seemingly wiped all traces of Rorie from his Instagram as his grid now only shows posts featuring himself and his family.

Meanwhile Rorie has changed her profile from public to private and disabled her 'comments' function.

However the exes still appear to be following each other on the social media platform after saying they wished each other 'all the very best'.

It comes after Robert and his girlfriend Rorie Buckey, 19, announced their split after almost two years of dating

Robert and Rorie were believed to have dated since November 2022, but went Instagram official in August 2023.

Prior to that, the pair made their red carpet debut at the Mission: Impossible – Dead Reckoning Part One premiere in Sydney.

The duo were last seen together looking smitten as they jetted out of Melbourne following their appearance at the Australian Open.