She often shares videos showing her life in the British capital as an American

Ashlee King moved from the US to live in London a year ago with her fiancé

An American woman has shared some of her favorite new phrases she has learned after a year of living in the UK.

Ashlee King, who lives in London, made a list of her most used sentences - noting when she lives in the US they weren't part of her usual vernacular.

In a now-viral TikTok, Ashlee revealed the phrases she'll be taking home with her when she leaves.

'First one, "get it sorted,"' she said. 'Instead of saying this like oh, "we'll get it sorted" or "how did you get that sorted?"'

Ashlee King, who lives in London, made a list of her most used sentences - noting when she lives in the US they weren't part of her usual vernacular

The American has shared some of her favorite new phrases she's learned, after a year of living in the UK

'This is a phrase you would maybe use in the US, but you guys use it way more over here,' she explained.

The next Ashlee said she used, which she also used in the US but is said more in the UK, is 'to be fair.'

'I love to be fair,' she declared. 'I love typing TBF.'

Her next favorite was for f**k's sake or 'FFS,' detailing a handful of times when she has used it in the past.

'The day I stubbed my toe and my knee-jerk reaction was to say ffs,' she shared. 'I felt really British in that moment.'

'Anytime something happens that's negative, you just respond "FFS,"' she added.

Her final word was one she said she never said before moving countries, but has begun to say it after living in England for almost a year, which was simply 'c**t.'

'In the US it is so bad to say and it's becoming a little bit more acceptable, like you can say this with a 'Y' at the end of it as like a joke in the US,' she explained.

Ashlee moved from the US to London about a year ago when her fiancé was offered a job transfer, and says it was the best decision she's ever made

'If you were to call someone this, everyone would stare at you and be like, that was aggressive,' Ashlee explained.

'I am allowed to say about someone once a quarter while I live here,' she quipped. 'Don't tell my mom and dad.'

Ashlee was first thrust into the spotlight after gaining recognition for her TikTok video documenting her life in London, and her series trying British teas.

She's previously made a video about her other new phrases, which include 'what are you on about,' 'bin it,' and 'you smashed it.'

Ashlee moved from the US to London about a year ago when her fiancé was offered a job transfer, and says it was the best decision she's ever made.

'I've always wanted to live abroad, I love to travel,' she explained in a TikTok.

Ashlee quit her job to move with her fiancé, saying she hasn't found a 9-5 job but has been taking the time to indulge in some hobbies - like making videos.

'We love it here,' she gushed. 'And if you ever get the opportunity to move to a different country for even just a little bit, you should.'

She continued: 'My perspective on the world has changed so much and I'm super, super grateful to be here.'