Shakira just announced her first album in seven years - Las Mujeres Ya No Lloran (Women No Longer Cry) - which will be released by Sony Latin on March 22.

The 47-year-old pop star's record features four different album covers showcasing her petite 5ft2in figure wearing breast plates and body-hugging leggings selected by stylist Nicolas Bru.

Shakira (last name Ripoli) had her signature long golden locks and suspiciously-unlined face made up on the covers by her one-woman glam squad, Beatriz Matallana.

'My [12th studio album] is one I created together with all of you, my pack of shewolves who were there for me every step of the way,' the three-time Grammy winner - who boasts 352.2M social media followers - wrote on Thursday.

'Making this body of work has been an alchemical process. While writing each song I was rebuilding myself. While singing them, my tears transformed into diamonds, and my vulnerability into strength.'

Shakira just announced her first album in seven years - Las Mujeres Ya No Lloran (Women No Longer Cry) - which will be released by Sony Latin on March 22

Shakira's 16-track Spanish-language album features eight new songs, a remix, and seven previously released singles - Acróstico, Out of Your League, Bzrp Music Sessions, Vol. 53, TQG, Te Felicito, Copa Vacía, and El Jefe.

The Colombian contralto crooner currently amasses an impressive 59.2M monthly listeners on Spotify.

Shakira has experienced significant hardship in the past seven years, including the acrimonious 2022 split from her partner of 12 years, retired soccer centre-back Gerard Piqué.

The Golden Globe-nominated songwriter reportedly discovered a jar of jam that the 37-year-old Spaniard didn't like was devoured while she was out of town, and he's since gone public with his 25-year-old Kosmos staffer-turned-girlfriend Clara Chia Martí.

That same year, Shakira and Gerard signed a custody agreement for their 11-year-old son Milan Piqué and nine-year-old son Sasha Piqué.

The former couple told TMZ at the time: 'Our sole objective is to provide our children with the utmost security and protection and hope that they can continue with their lives in a safe and calm environment.'

Last November, Shakira shelled out a combined $34M to the country of Spain for unpaid taxes between 2012-2014 and 2018 in order to avoid a potential eight-year prison sentence - according to El Periodico.

The Emmy-nominated performer will next compete for two trophies - Female Latin Artist of the Year and Collaboration Song of the Year (with Karol G) - at the 49th People's Choice Awards, which air this Sunday on NBC.

Shakira is also nominated for six trophies - including artist of the year - at the 2024 iHeartRadio Music Awards, which air April 1 on Fox.

The 47-year-old pop star's record features four different album covers showcasing her petite 5ft2in figure wearing breast plates and body-hugging leggings selected by stylist Nicolas Bru

Shakira (last name Ripoli) had her signature long golden locks and suspiciously-unlined face made up on the covers by her one-woman glam squad, Beatriz Matallana

The three-time Grammy winner wrote on Thursday: 'My [12th studio album] is one I created together with all of you, my pack of shewolves who were there for me every step of the way'

She added: 'Making this body of work has been an alchemical process. While writing each song I was rebuilding myself. While singing them, my tears transformed into diamonds, and my vulnerability into strength'

Shakira's 16-track Spanish-language album features eight new songs, a remix, and seven previously released singles - Acróstico, Out of Your League, Bzrp Music Sessions, Vol. 53, TQG, Te Felicito, Copa Vacía, and El Jefe

The Colombian contralto crooner has experienced significant hardship in the past seven years, including the acrimonious 2022 split from her partner of 12 years, retired soccer centre-back Gerard Piqué (L, pictured in 2021)

Shakira reportedly discovered a jar of jam that the 37-year-old Spaniard didn't like was devoured while she was out of town, and he's since gone public with his 25-year-old Kosmos staffer-turned-girlfriend Clara Chia Martí (L, pictured May 20)

That same year, the Golden Globe-nominated songwriter and Gerard signed a custody agreement for their 11-year-old son Milan Piqué and nine-year-old son Sasha Piqué (pictured September 12)

Last November, Shakira shelled out a combined $34M to the country of Spain for unpaid taxes between 2012-2014 and 2018 in order to avoid a potential eight-year prison sentence

The Emmy-nominated performer will next compete for two trophies - Female Latin Artist of the Year and Collaboration Song of the Year (with Karol G) - at the 49th People's Choice Awards, which air this Sunday on NBC