Good Morning America, the USA’s biggest TV breakfast show, must have been thrilled to get the first interview with Prince Harry so soon after his father’s shocking cancer diagnosis.

It suited the Prince, too, for his admirable Winter Invictus Games were promoted on the show, and he was once again in the limelight just days after he and Meghan launched their new website, Sussex.com.

Harry returned the favour, dutifully answering questions about King Charles’s health.

How did you hear of it? ‘I spoke to him. I jumped on a plane.’ Could the cancer diagnosis have a unifying effect on your family? ‘Possibly, yes. I love my family.’

William, Kate and Camilla, all traduced in the Prince’s memoir Spare and the Netflix shows, may have a different take on that, but never mind.

Prince Harry with his father King Charles at an event in London in 2019

The Prince told us he ‘loved every day’ living in California and was asked if he ‘felt American’ or planned to become a citizen of the United States? To which a thoughtful Harry said: ‘I’ve considered it, yes, it had crossed my mind.’

And I said to myself: ‘Harry an American citizen? Hurrah! Could we finally rid ourselves of this troublesome Prince?’ True, he would have to get round the fact that U.S. authorities won’t like his confessions in Spare of past drug use.

But if he became a U.S. citizen it could solve everything. For it wouldn’t then be up to his loving father to decide as King whether to strip him and Meghan of their titles.

According to U.S. immigration policy, ‘any applicant who has any titles of heredity or positions of nobility in any foreign state must renounce the title or the position’.

Harry would even have to ‘expressly renounce the title in a public ceremony’. The couple would no longer be a duke and duchess, just Harry and Meghan Sussex — or whatever surname they chose to use.

Of course, it was a flight of fancy. I’m guessing Hell will freeze over before Harry and Meghan allow that to happen. The Sussexes have no cachet in America without their royal connections.

But just imagine it. Harry the humanitarian, a plain Mr — calm and serene, no longer railing against being a spare without a purpose. And us in Blighty enjoying peace at last from his constant whingeing.

Please Harry, do us all a favour. Become an American citizen.

Brexiteer MPs are pleading for Rishi to swallow his pride and bring back Boris as a fellow campaigner to have any chance at the next election. As Boris once said, ‘there’s more chance of finding Elvis on Mars or my being reinvented as an olive’.

Sharon's bare cheek

Basic Instinct star Sharon Stone — worth £48 million — says folk don’t understand the pressure of being famous, rich and beautiful and it is expensive employing staff to recreate her movie star look every time she goes out.

Look on the bright side, Sharon. Think of all the money that you save not having to buy any knickers.

Basic Instinct star Sharon Stone — worth £48 million — says folk don’t understand the pressure of being famous, rich and beautiful

Stop the clocks. Torvill and Dean, the Romeo and Juliet of the ice rink, are hanging up their skates 40 years after that Bolero performance. How apt. In dance, Ravel’s Bolero embodies a message about the need for human connection. Jayne and Christopher may never have been lovers, but their lifelong friendship won over all our hearts.

Romance will end Swiftly

Taylor Swift’s romance with NFL footballer Travis Kelce was a celebrity match made in heaven — until after winning the Superbowl he was so drunk he could hardly stand.

So legless he couldn’t sing Garth Brooks’s country hit Friends In Low Places and his team-mates had to stop him from falling off the stage.

Travis Kelce embraces Taylor Swift following the Kansas City Chiefs' Superbowl win against the San Francisco 49ers last weekend

Then he continued to booze long into the night after one person had been killed and others injured in a shooting at the Kansas City Chiefs’ victory parade. Not exactly the man you’d expect for the squeaky clean, almost teetotal, never swearing, totally in control Taylor.

I give it six months.

Westminster wars

Rachel Reeves takes tax cuts off the table while Chancellor Jeremy Hunt insists that they’re still his priority. So clear blue water at last between Labour and the Tories. Although after this week’s catastrophic by-elections for the Conservatives, that water is as blood-soaked as a scene from Jaws.

Chancellor Jeremy Hunt insists tax cuts are still his priority

And it was hardly a vote of confidence from Tory chairman Richard Holden, who told Nick Ferrari on LBC yesterday that he hasn’t even decided if he’ll be putting himself forward to stand as an MP at the next election.

Oh, Lords help us!

A moment of utter parody when Wales’s Plaid Cymru parachutes Carmen Smith, 27 — who has vowed to abolish the House of Lords — into the unelected Upper House as its youngest ever peer.

‘Hopefully the work I can do will make that space look different,’ she says.

Well, her red hair and Doc Martens will be a welcome change from all that dandruff-coated ermine.

Zendaya's look is out of this world

Blimey, the lengths some actresses will go to these days to suffer for their art!

Zendaya wore a crotch-clutching metallic outfit complete with two-inch claws and see-through cut-outs for her breasts and bottom at the premiere of futuristic movie Dune Part 2

I’m talking about Zendaya’s appearance at the premiere of futuristic movie Dune Part 2, a poor man’s Star Wars. She wore a crotch-clutching metallic outfit complete with two-inch claws and see-through cut-outs for her breasts and bottom. Princess Leia she ain’t.

Although it did leave us mere mortals wondering how she manages, in that get-up, to go to the loo. Or maybe on Planet Arrakis ladies don’t need the ladies.

Warner Bros is to make a Harry Potter TV series based on J.K. Rowling’s books — and she’ll be a producer. One in the eye for online trolls who attacked her over her sensible views about what it is to be a woman. As well as for Emma Watson and Daniel Radcliffe, the child stars who criticised those views. I’m not expecting parts for them in the new series.

The mother of murdered teenager Brianna Ghey is campaigning to get mindfulness taught in schools as ‘Brianna’s legacy’. We understand why Esther feels the need to campaign and hold on to her child’s memory. But I hope she also finds time to care for herself.

Esther Ghey is campaigning to get mindfulness taught in schools as ‘Brianna’s legacy’

Before attending the opening night of the Live Aid musical, Bob Geldof hit back at claims he had a ‘white saviour complex’ having raised £114 million for famine relief in Ethiopia in 1985. Sir Bob rightly said: ‘Black saviours, white saviours, green saviours, I’m with them all.’

Why DID protester get asylum?

Anti-Israel protester Heba Alhayek, who proudly wore a paraglider sticker celebrating Hamas’s October 7 terrorist atrocity, walked free from court despite being found guilty under the Terrorism Act. Then it emerged she was given asylum status here after claiming she fled Gaza under threat of persecution by . . . Hamas. Try getting your head round that!

Comedian Paul Currie, who allegedly verbally abused an Israeli man who objected to him displaying a Palestinian flag, was supported by the 200-strong audience shouting, ‘get out’. Soho Theatre, which hosted the show, condemned his ‘appalling actions’ and says he will never be invited back. The irony is Soho Theatre was once a synagogue.

Actress Sheridan Smith and adventurer Ben Fogle are the latest celebrities to whine about their struggles with ADHD. Crikey! If fidgeting, a lack of concentration and being forgetful are the symptoms of this debilitating condition, 90 per cent of the population are undiagnosed sufferers — including me.