A nine-month cruise around the world cruise turned into a trip from hell for some passengers, after a storm at sea caused major flooding to certain areas of the ship.

The Royal Caribbean Ultimate World Cruise is a 274-night journey that will visit more than 60 countries, with passengers seeing 11 wonders of the world - on a vacation that cost anywhere between $53,000 to more than $105,000.

The ship, called Serenade of the Seas, departed from Miami, Florida on December 10, 2023 - but on January 2, less than two weeks in, while sailing towards Montevideo, Uruguay, it was battered by 60mph winds and heavy rain.

Many disgruntled cruise goers took to TikTok to report the deluge, with one woman revealing how she had to move rooms, while one couple complained that in the midst of the chaos, wine supplies were running low.

A nine-month cruise around the world cruise turned into a trip from hell for some passengers, after a storm at sea caused major flooding to certain areas of the ship

A video montage posted by @accuweather shows sheets of water flooding the sundeck and pool area

Despite flooding in the fitness area, determined gym goers can be seen on the treadmills while water sloshes around

Explaining what happened in her case, Nadine Bowers said: 'Where my balcony was there's an overhang and the rain was coming in so heavy, it was hitting directly the window and coming down and it was all gathering in the rail... and then pouring over the top.'

While the flooding in her room 'wasn't severe' she said she had to move rooms and put heat fans in her room to dry out the carpet.

She told viewers: 'It's just very smelly. I don't know if you guys have been around wet carpet and blowers before but it blows up all the dust and everything.

'It was just too much for me, so they put me up very kindly in another room.'

In other TikToks uploaded by @aditaml2759, severe flooding can be seen on Deck 12, with several inches of water washing over the carpet.

The cruise goer explained that the elevators had also been shut down as a result of the storm.

A video montage posted @accuweather shows sheets of water flooding the main sundeck and pool area, while the gym was also awash.

Despite flooding in the fitness area, determined gym goers can be seen on the treadmills while water sloshes around.

In a bid to keep the water levels down, a mound of sodden gym towels appear on the ground.

As the flooding was going on, cruise passengers Mike and Nancy Jacobs told their TikTok fans that their biggest concern was that the ship's wine supplies were running low.

The Royal Caribbean Ultimate World Cruise is a 274-night journey that will visit more than 60 countries, with passengers seeing 11 wonders of the world

Nadine Bowers had to install heat blowers in her room to dry out the soaked carpet. She said the smell wasn't good and she had to move rooms

As the flooding was going on, cruise passengers Mike and Nancy Jacobs told their TikTok fans that their biggest concern was that the ship's wine supplies were running low.

The first leg, the Ultimate Americas Cruise, passengers will travel to islands in the Caribbean to Antarctica

TikTok users have showed off the impressive vessel in clips posted online, which weighs 90,090 tons and can fit 2,100 passengers

Creator Angie Linderman (pictured) explained she was working from the cruise, also estimating about 20 children to be on board, who will also be homeschooled

In one clip, Angie showed off the massive task of unpacking to live on board the vessel for nine months

Deeming the shortage 'the ultimate world cruise drama,' Mike revealed how staff told him that the passengers had gone through more wine than they had anticipated and they were struggling to restock.

In regards to the flooding, cruise operator Royal Caribbean told DailyMail.com that a 'minor clean-up and elevator repairs' were carried out and the ship managed to sail to its next destination, Montevideo, and arrive as scheduled on January 4.

Updates from the TikTokers show how the flood waters dissapated and Mike and Nancy also revealed that the wine supplies were replenished on reaching Uruguay.

Hopefully it will be plane sailing for the rest of the long haul voyage.

Serenade of the Seas will return to its home port in Miami on September 10, 2024.

The first leg of the trip, the Ultimate Americas Cruise, will see passengers travel to islands in the Caribbean to Antarctica.

They'll then embark on the Ultimate Asia Pacific Cruise, where they'll travel to Australia, Asia, and the Pacific Islands.

This is followed by the Ultimate Middle East and Med part of the cruise, spotlighting Dubai, Egypt, Greece and Croatia, before looping around Europe and across to New York.

The 90,090-ton, 2,100-passenger vessel has a spa pool, library, cinema, slot machines, plenty of decking space, a two-floor dining space, and a shopping arcade.

A number of TikTok videos previously shared by passengers showed themselves boarding the cruise liner, giving tours of their rooms and what they do day-to-day whilst at sea - and those left on land are utterly fascinated.

While the passengers board the ship and prepare their sea legs, the rest of the world is eagerly waiting to see what exactly happens when you spend nine months at sea.

In one TikTok, prominent cruise creator Amike Oosthuizen talked through what the guests received as they boarded the ship.

The TikTok videos were flooded with users curious about the ins and outs of life on a cruise ship

Around the world in nine months! A breakdown of the long-haul cruise journey There are four legs of the mega-cruise, which lasts for 274 nights, visiting 11 world wonders, and 60-plus countries. December 10 - February 11: Ultimate Americas Cruise United States, Peru, the Bahamas, Mexico, Barbados, Aruba, Brazil February 11 - May 9: Ultimate Asia Pacific Cruise Argentina, Antarctica, Chile, Peru, Ecuador, Mexico, LA May 9 to June 12: Ultimate Middle East and Med Cruise Hawaii, French Polynesia, New Zealand, Australia, Indonesia, Philippines, China, Japan, South Korea, Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, India, United Arab Emirates, Oman, Jordan, Egypt, Cyprus, Greece, Turkey, Bulgaria, Romania June 12 to September 10: Ultimate Europe and Beyond Cruise Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, Malta, France, Spain, Portugal, Ireland, England, Germany, Denmark, Latvia, Estonia, Finland, Sweden, Lithuania, Norway, the Netherlands, Iceland, Greenland, Newfoundland, Bermuda, United States Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/travel/travel_news/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Showing her followers her room, the 26-year-old - who is travelling with her husband - excitedly showed off the 'goodies' she received upon boarding, including the detailed itinerary, a reusable cup, umbrella and her favorite: a Royal Caribbean robe.

Amike, who works in the registration department for an Ivy Solutions company, said all guests were also given a laundry bag - which gets picked up for free weekly.

She added that she and her husband, who is an engineer, will be both working from home on board the ship for the entire nine months.

'[The cruise costs] about $50,000 to $100,000 plus [depending] on what room you booked,' she explained in one clip.

'We booked a balcony room around $70,000 and then you asked what is included in the price, so business class flights are included in the price, all your food and drinks; literally alcohol, coffee, Starbucks coffee, protein shakes, smoothies - everything you can think of is included.'

Passenger Brooklyn Schwetje gave followers a detailed tour of the ship, showing of impressive amenities like a cinema, conference room, helipad, walking and running track, and even an on-board pub.

Another passenger Angie Linderman, who is travelling with her brother, sister-in-law and their three children, estimated there to be about 20 kids on board in total for the whole nine months, who will be homeschooled for the duration of the trip.

Angie, who works in social media and will be working part time on board, also broke down the ship's journey.

The keen cruiser explained that as there were four different legs of the journey and people would be joining at various legs of the journey - but a portion will be there from start to finish.

Even with creators answering questions and responding to comments from curious land dwellers, there were still some predictions and burning questions people had.

'I wonder if anybody who's taking the whole trip is early pregnant and doesn't know. A baby could be born on board ! And statistically someone will die,' one commenter wrote.

'I'm wondering how people deal with prescriptions over the 9 months? I get one every 3 months... how do you get them?' another asked.

Some followers are there for the reality TV-style drama that may occur.

'I feel like we are being introduced to new characters on the world cruise season of white lotus,' one user joked on a TikTok video.