University students have tried to cancel a bookshop for selling literature on slavery and suicide, its owner has claimed.

Tasha Berks has run Bookmark, a second hand bookshop in Falmouth, for over 20 years, but claims that 'woke' students have recently come in to her shop to 'check' if her collection is 'racist'.

The 58-year-old blasted the Gen-zers for being blatantly rude to her when they come in, and for taking photos of books to then just buy them later online.

She argued that the growth of Falmouth University is to blame for a number of issues in the area, because it has allowed the number of students it enrols each year to more than double since 2010.

She told MailOnline: 'I've had students come in and tell me I can't have books on suicide and slavery on display.

'One boy was taking photos of a book, I said, 'I hope you're not just going to buy that cheaper online' but he said he was checking if it was racist.'

58-year-old Tasha Berks has owned Bookmark, a second hand bookshop in Falmouth, for over 20 years

She claimed that ' woke ' students have recently come in to her shop to 'check' if her collection is 'racist'

She said: 'As a trader I have never been more depressed because of the way young people are quite rude to me.

'It's not all of them – most are nice people – but I've had students come in and tell me I can't have books on suicide and slavery on display.

'One boy was taking photos of a book, I said, 'I hope you're not just going to buy that cheaper online' but he said he was checking if it was racist.

'The university has got too big, there are 7,000 students living in houses local people used to live in.

'It's a beautiful place and I can understand why they want to be here, but they don't understand working class fishermen and that's what this town was.

'In the last three or four years most of the people we used to see all the time have left. I wish more locals would come into town and we would see old friends again, but they stay away.'

Falmouth in Cornwall has been voted the most depressing place to live in the UK by the satirical website iLiveHere

General view of the harbour area. Ms Berks argued that the growth of Falmouth University is to blame for a number of issues in the area, as it has allowed the number of students it enrols each year to more than double since 2010

Locals also hit out at being labelled a 'cultural void' saying the town boasts numerous independent shops, art galleries and hosts annual oyster and sea shanty festivals.

It comes after Falmouth was labelled as the most depressing place to live in Britain as furious locals blame second home owners for sucking the life out of the community.

Falmouth came out top in an annual poll ahead of the likes of Alloa in Scotland, Peterborough in Cambridgeshire, and Crawley in West Sussex.

Savage reviews on satirical website iLiveHere, where people leave honest and brutal assessments, branded the area as 'bland and boring' and said it had an air of 'soul-destroying mediocrity with a gaping cultural void'.

Homes in the town - which has the third largest natural harbour in the world - sell on average for around £400,000, with celebrities such as Flog It!'s Paul Martin and novelist Joseph Conrad once calling the area home.

Falmouth pipped serial winners Peterborough to the top spot by 27 votes with it being suggested by iLiveHere 'the power of social media and word of mouth is what propelled Falmouth' to number one.