SHOPPING – Contains affiliated content. Products featured in this Shopping article are selected by our writers. If you make a purchase using links on this page, Daily Mail Australia will earn an affiliate commission. Click here for more information.

Do you know how often you should be washing your child's hair?

When a recent FEMAIL article debunking haircare myths took the internet by storm, as a mum-of-two it made me wonder if the advice would be the same for children's hair.

I realised that despite having two little girls and bathing them daily, I didn't know how often I should be washing their hair. And after learning about kids hair care brand Twiddl, I wondered if different children's hair types needed varying types of care.

So I reached out to a professional for answers.

Hair loss and scalp expert Anthony Pearce, a trichologist with over 30 years experience in the industry, told me how often you should be washing your children's hair, what ingredients to avoid using and how care differs for specific hair types.

'I would suggest as a rule of thumb to shampoo the child's hair every second evening as a minimum, up to five or six times a week,' he said.

Hair loss and scalp expert Anthony Pearce, a trichologist with over 30 years experience in the industry, has revealed just how often you should be washing your children's hair

There are also a number of factors to consider like daily activities, the season of the year and if there are any scalp issues.

The female and children's hair loss expert says that this doesn't change with the age of your child. 'Even a newborn baby is usually bathed daily and hair and scalp should be included.'

Revealing why it is important to cleanse a baby's head regularly Andrew said: 'A baby's head surface area is much larger at this time than as they age and they lose most of their heat through the head (so often excess sweating is an issue)'.

Anthony also listed the ingredients parents should avoid when choosing haircare products for their children.

'Ideally shampoos which are sodium lauryl/laureth sulphate-free (SLS, SLES) and are free of silicones, chemical surfactants, and paraben preservatives would be better for hair follicle health and the scalp microbiome environment,' he said.

After learning about kids hair care brand Twiddl, created for children with curly and wavy hair, it posed the question do different children's hair types need varying care?

For children with curly hair, Andrew said it is 'better to leave the hair to dry naturally' and says to minimise the risk of 'shampoo-knotting' those with tight, curly hair should condition before shampooing.

Twiddl founder and mum, Marian Soliman, knows all too well about struggling to control her daughter's unruly curly hair and after failing to find suitable products that worked on her daughter, she created her own.

The premium, natural haircare range is specifically designed for kids with wavy and curly hair includes a shampoo, conditioner, detangling spray and leave in cream (all $23.95 each), as well as cute haircare accessories like satin pillowcases, satin scrunchies and hair towel wraps.

Marian Soliman failed to find products that worked on her daughter's hair, so she learnt more about haircare and spent two years on research and development before launching Twiddl

Marian told Daily Mail Australia: 'When I noticed my daughter's first curls appearing, I started looking for products that were suitable and I noticed that despite extensive ranges of baby and adult products to choose from, there wasn't much that catered to hydrating kids curls and were both natural and effective.'

After trying and testing various brands she found that many products not only contained undesirable ingredients, like the ones Andrew says to avoid, but nothing worked.

'I knew from there I had to learn more about the kid's haircare market and create my own range that I would be proud to use on my own daughter's hair,' Marian said.

Years of research, product development and testing followed before Twiddl was launched in 2021.

The range has proved extremely popular with parents who have found themselves in a similar situation to Marian and has received a number of rave reviews

The Twiddl products are free from sulphates, phthalates, silicones, parabens, synthetic colours and fragrances, but aim to be 'just as effective as what you would expect from salon formulations'.

Twiddl products are also cruelty free, vegan and tear free and are formulated and manufactured in Australia too.

The range has proved extremely popular with parents and has received a number of rave reviews.

Twiddl is specifically designed for kids with wavy and curly hair includes a shampoo, conditioner, detangling spray and leave in cream (all $23.95 each)

One happy shopper who gave a five star review said: 'Thank you for making curly girl shampoo for kids! We're trying out the method and so far are pleased with the results; less frizz & more defined curls. Daughter loves that she has her own special curly hair products and the packaging is so pretty.'

Another please parent labelled Twiddl as 'The only products for a curly baby' adding: 'I've used a number of baby friendly shampoos and conditioners, but the Twiddl set is far superior to anything else!'

For more information about Twiddl click here.