Former Representative Liz Cheney warned there was a 'Putin wing' of the Republican party and said if Donald Trump was re-elected it could 'take over the West Wing of the White House'.

Her remarks to CNN came after former president Trump refused to condemn Russia after the death of opposition leader Alexei Navalny and encouraged the Kremlin to attack NATO allies.

Cheney said: 'We have to take seriously the extent to which you’ve now got a Putin-wing of the Republican Party.

'I believe the issue this election cycle is making sure that the Putin-wing of the Republican Party does not take over the West Wing of the White House.'

Trump has come under fire for 'siding with' Russia after he failed to mention Russian president Vladimir Putin in his response to the death of Navalny - in sharp contrast to President Joe Biden who pinned the blame on 'Putin and his thugs'.

Liz Cheney slammed former president Donald Trump for his failure to condemn Russia and Vladimir Putin

Speaking on CNN, she warned that there is now a 'Putin wing' of the Republican party

Navalny, 47, was the leader of the opposition to the Kremlin and was being held in a penal colony in the Arctic where he was found dead on Friday with many claiming he was 'murdered' by Vladimir Putin's regime.

On Sunday, his body was found to show signs of bruising consistent with being held down while he suffered a seizure, raising fears that he was killed on the orders of Vladimir Putin.

When Biden addressed his death, he said: 'Make no mistake: Putin is responsible for Navalny’s death. Putin is responsible. What has happened to Navalny is yet more proof of Putin’s brutality. Nobody should be fooled.'

Trump on the other hand did not even directly mention Navalny in his response and posted instead about his own criminal cases and political opponents.

Cheney said: 'When you think about Donald Trump, for example, pledging retribution, what Vladimir Putin did to Navalny is what retribution looks like in a country where a leader is not subject to the rule of law.'

Likewise Nikki Haley slammed Trump for what she labelled his 'bone-chilling' response to Navalny's death.

The 2024 hopeful said Trump's silence on Navalny's death showed either the ex-president 'siding' with Putin or a sense of apathy toward a world leader killing their opponent.

Trump didn't mention Putin in his response to Navalny's death and previously encouraged Russia to attack NATO allies

Vladimir Putin (pictured) has been accused of signing off on his murder

She told ABC News: 'It's actually pretty amazing that he… won't acknowledge anything with Navalny.

'Either he sides with Putin and thinks it's cool that Putin killed one of his political opponents, or he just doesn't think it's that big of a deal,' she added. 'Either one of those is concerning. Either one of those is a problem.

It comes after Trump received a slew of backlash for encouraging Putin to attack delinquent NATO ally countries.

Trump told a crowd in Conway, South Carolina last weekend that if president again, he would not protect NATO allies against Russia if they don't pay their fair share toward the alliance.

'The president of a big country stood up and said 'if we don't pay, and we're attacked by Russia, will you protect us?' I said you didn't pay, you're delinquent? He said, 'yes, let's say that happened.'

'No, I would not protect you,' Trump said last Saturday. 'In fact I would encourage them [Russia] to do whatever the hell they want.'

'You gotta pay! You gotta pay your bills.'

NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg said his comment 'undermines all of our security, including that of the US, and puts American and European soldiers at increased risk.'

Cheney said in the new interview: 'He’s basically made clear that under a Trump administration, the United States is unlikely to keep its NATO commitments.'

Former UN Amb. Nikki Haley tore into former President Donald Trump for remaining silent on the death of Russian President Vladimir Putin's political rival and prisoner Alexei Navalny

Haley has grown increasingly critical of Trump's soft-on-Russian stance and 'empowering' of Putin. Pictured: Trump and Putin speak during the APEC Leaders' Summit in Vietnam on November 11, 2017

She labelled his comments 'dangerous' and said they show 'a complete lack of understanding of America’s role in the world.'

Cheney also did not rule out making a third-party run for president herself, but added that she would do 'whatever is necessary to defeat Donald Trump.'

Haley also slammed his comments on NATO, saying: 'When you hear Donald Trump say in South Carolina a week ago that he would encourage Putin to invade our allies if they weren't pulling their weight.

'That's bone-chilling, because all he did in that one moment was empower Putin.

'And all he did in that moment was, he sided with a guy that kills his political opponents, he sided with a thug that arrests American journalists and holds them hostage, and he sided with a guy who wanted to make a point to the Russian people – don't challenge me in the next election or this will happen to you too.'