The Prince of Wales cut a dashing figure at the BAFTAs in London this evening, arriving solo for the biggest night in British film - as the Princess of Wales continues to recover from her abdominal surgery at the family's home.

Prince William, 42, who has been the president of the EE British Academy Film Awards since 2010, cut a sharp figure in his trademark navy velour suit jacket and dickie bow as he greeted the crowds gathered outside the Royal Festival Hall.

Looking relaxed, the heir to the throne posed for selfies with fans and chatted to well-wishers as he strolled down the red carpet.

Once inside, Prince William took a seat next to Hollywood royalty - Cate Blanchett - ahead of the awards ceremony, presented this year by David Tennant, beginning.

The star-studded event saw a host of A-listers descend on the South Bank, with Margot Robbie, Emily Blunt, Emma Stone and Florence Pugh donning their finery for the British film event.

The Prince opted for a velour navy blue dinner jacket, dickie bow and patent black brogues for the most glamorous night in the British film calendar

The 42-year-old royal strides down the carpet alone at the Royal Festival Hall ahead of this evening's ceremony

The royal looked on sparkling form as he arrived for the cinematic evening on the South Bank

Later in the night, Prince William shook hands with David Beckham

Tonight is the first high-profile royal engagement William has attended since the Princess of Wales underwent a major operation last month, and news of his father's cancer diagnosis.

It was initially thought he would miss the ceremony, which he typically attends with Kate, but the Prince appeared keen to represent the royal family at the event.

The mother-of-three had surgery on January 16 at the London Clinic and has since returned to Adelaide Cottage in Windsor to be with their three children.

Leading man: William strides forth on the red carpet, where he will address the audience as president of BAFTA

Once inside, Prince William took a seat next to Hollywood royalty - Cate Blanchett - ahead of the awards beginning

An embrace for Cate: Blanchett puts her arm on the Prince of Wales' shoulder as the pair greet each other

A wave from Wills: Prince William pictured at the BAFTAs 2024; the royal, who has been president of the Academy since 2010 was pictured chatting to the crowds gathered at the Royal Festival Hall this evening

The prince and the famous footballer chatted for a while inside the Royal Albert Hall

Since the royal health announcements, which have also included his father the King's unspecified cancer diagnosis and separate prostate treatment, William has attended few events.

He gave a speech at a London charity engagement raising funds for London's Air Ambulance Charity's new fleet of helicopters earlier this month.

Christopher Nolan's epic biopic about atomic bomb creator J Robert Oppenheimer is expected to be a big winner at the Baftas after Oppenheimer received 13 nominations.

Selfies: William appeared to lean in to pose for selfies with fans as he arrived at the event

A handshake from a film fan; the Prince is likely to have fielded questions about both his wife and his father's health

Flanked by close security, the Prince walks into the London landmark; traditionally he has attended the event with his wife the Princess of Wales

The Prince of Wales cast a glance up to the skies as he prepared to take his seat

A dapper prince: William offers a wave to well-wishers; hundreds gathered at the event to catch a glimpse of the royal, and some of the film industry's biggest stars

Sharp! The suited-and-booted Prince cut a dashing figure as he arrived for the awards ceremony

BBC footage of Prince William arriving at the Royal Festival Hall; the Prince is attending without Kate Middleton, who is still recovering from surgery at home

William has been the president of Bafta since 2010 and Kate first attended the event with her husband in 2017.

At last years event, Kate Middleton opted for an Alexander McQueen one shoulder gown for the occasion, which she first wore to the event in 2019.

For his outfit, William kept things classic and simple in a double-breasted black velvet tuxedo jacket.

After the award ceremony, the couple chatted animatedly with the stars, including Austin and Sex Education's Emma Mackey, as well as the host of the event, Alison Hammond.

Last year: Prince William and Kate Middleton pictured at the BAFTA awards in 2023

William has taken on a new role in public royal life since news of his father's cancer diagnosis, and is expected to step in for the King at a number of upcoming events.

Charles has postponed all public-facing duties, but is continuing with behind-the-scenes work on his red boxes of state papers.

The Queen has been carrying out her royal diary of engagements and last week said her husband was doing 'extremely well under the circumstances'.

She said the King, who underwent his first bout of cancer treatment last week, had been 'very touched' by all the messages of support he has received from the public.

The King and Queen arrived as downpours swept across London and Charles was photographed waving to well-wishers.

Charles's diagnosis followed three nights in a private London hospital where he was treated for an enlarged prostate.

The Prince of Wales may step in to represent his father at events and it has been reported William and his family are spending half-term at their Norfolk home Anmer Hall, which is on the King's Sandringham estate.