America's most expensive home hit the market for a staggering $295 million.

The beachfront compound was built by financier John Donahue for his family of 13 children and 84 grandchildren in the 1980s, after he spotted a plot of undeveloped land during a plane ride in 1985 and paid $1m for it.

The Donahue family enjoyed decades of gatherings and celebrations at the Naples property, hosting notable figures such as former President George H.W. Bush and Arnold Palmer, their son Bill Donahue said in a Wall Street Journal exclusive.

It is now brought to market by Coldwell Banker Realty's Dawn McKenna Group, in partnership with The Leighton Candler Team of Corcoran and Savills Rory McMullen.

The property boasts three houses and a private yacht basin, and represents the highest-priced listing in the US.

It could set a record for the most expensive residential sale in the country if it achieves its asking price - and realtors say its likely buyers are so rich they could end up tearing down the existing mansions, then rebuilding them.

A stunning shot shows part of the nine-acre compound listed for $295 million in Naples, Florida, that'll be the most expensive home ever sold in the United States if it reaches its asking price

America's most expensive home hit the market for a staggering $295 million

Following the deaths of John and Rhodora, the family is now listing the crown jewel of their estate - a 9-acre compound in Naples' Port Royal neighborhood - for a potentially record-setting $295 million

The property's original owners Rhodora and John Donahue are pictured. Both have since died, with their relatives opting to sell their main home

Donahue spotted an uninhabited piece of land along the Gulf of Mexico while flying over Naples, Florida.

He purchased approximately 4.3 acres for $1 million in 1985, which included a small fishing cottage surrounded by mangroves.

Over the following decade, Donahue and his wife, Rhodora, expanded their holdings to roughly 60 acres, constructing a beachfront retreat for their large family of 13 children and 84 grandchildren.

Following the deaths of John and Rhodora, the family is now listing the crown jewel of their estate - a 9-acre compound in Naples' Port Royal neighborhood - for a potentially record-setting $295 million.

The main residence, spanning approximately 11,500 square feet, was built around 1989.

Two additional homes were added later, one around 1990 and the other in 2013.

The compound also includes a portion of Keewaydin Island, where the family constructed a 16,000-square-foot house around 2005 for additional accommodations.

Devout Catholics, the Donahues emphasized family, faith, and their business, Federated Investors, which John co-founded in 1955.

Now, with the passing of John and Rhodora, the family has decided to sell the compound.

The main residence, spanning approximately 11,500 square feet, was built around 1989

The property boasts three houses and a private yacht basin, and represents the highest-priced listing in the US

The compound also includes a portion of Keewaydin Island, where the family constructed a 16,000-square-foot house around 2005 for additional accommodations

The compound held a special place in the hearts of the Donahue family.

Bill recalled how his parents relocated to Naples from Pittsburgh around 1990, and over time, the family expanded to include more than 175 great-grandchildren.

Regularly, over 100 people gathered at the Naples property for Friday and Saturday night gatherings, Halloween parties, Easter Egg hunts, and various celebrations, from homecoming dances to weddings, to Rhodora's 90th birthday in 2015.

'I'm sure there have been numerous times when every bed in every room was full,' Bill told the Wall Street Journal.

In addition to family events, Bill recounted how his parents hosted prominent figures such as former President George H.W. Bush and Barbara Bush, referring to their guest room as the 'Presidential Suite.'

In May 2023, Beyonce and Jay-Z have made a historic real estate purchase and shattered previous California home price records in the process. The billionaire pair bought a lavish Malibu mansion for a whooping $200 million, making it the most expensive home ever sold in the state of California

'We nicknamed the room they stayed in the Presidential Suite,' he said to the Wall Street Journal.

The family also welcomed golfer Arnold Palmer and organized political luncheons for lawmakers like former Gov. Jeb Bush.

As devout Catholics, the Donahues also hosted visiting clergy, adhering to the family motto of 'Family, faith, and Federated,' which they deeply believed in.

For their 50th anniversary in 1996, Bill shared with the Wall Street Journal how his parents traveled with about 100 children and grandchildren to Rome to meet Pope John Paul II.

His father personally introduced each family member to the pontiff, who was shocked at the large family size.

'The Pope kept saying, 'Are these all yours?' He probably said it five times,' Bill said.

The listing agents claimed that the the property's size, location, and amenities, including the private yacht basin, justifies the staggering asking price.

They emphasize the rarity and size of the property and its extensive waterfront, making it a unique and valuable asset.

In May 2023, Beyoncé and Jay-Z have made a historic real estate purchase and shattered previous California home price records in the process.

In July 2023, a gorgeous Nantucket estate has become the most expensive home sold in Massachusetts history after selling for over $38million

The Crazy in Love singer, 41, and the hip hop mogul, 53, bought a lavish Malibu mega-mansion for a whooping $200 million, making it the most expensive home ever sold in the state of California, as per TMZ.

The power couple — who also own a mansion in the swanky Bel Air neighborhood — took the record from their new neighbor, venture capitalist Marc Andreessen, who bought his home next door for a staggering $177 million in 2021.

In July 2023, a gorgeous Nantucket estate has become the most expensive home sold in Massachusetts history after selling for over $38million.

Beam Ends, the luxurious 15,332 sqft mansion set on 3.56 acres of land, is located in the Monomoy area and has sweeping views of Nantucket Harbor.

The eight bed, 11 bath, waterfront home was sold for a stellar $38,127,500 - making it the most expensive home ever sold in Massachusetts.