He was joined by his fiancee, George Kittle, Kyle Juszczyk and their WAGs

Christian McCaffrey and the San Francisco 49ers were beaten in the Super Bowl

San Francisco star Christian McCaffrey and his fiancee Olivia Culpo have been spotted relaxing on a beach in Mexico a week on from the 49ers' heartbreaking Super Bowl loss in Las Vegas.

McCaffrey and Culpo were joined in Cabo San Lucas by his teammates tight end George Kittle and fullback Kyle Juszczyk as well as their wives - Claire and Kristin.

The couples soaked up the sun, relaxing in their swimwear on the sands and in the water during the much-needed vacation.

Running back McCaffrey could be seen holding hands with his glamorous fiancee - a former Miss Universe - as they walked along the beach.

In other pictures, the three couples are seen socializing together and even enjoying a game of softball.

Christian McCaffrey and Olivia Culpo relax on the beach in Mexico alongside some of his 49ers teammates and their wives

Kyle Juszczyk and his wife Kristin (L) enjoy some downtime alongside George Kittle and Culpo

The three couples take a stroll on the beach in Mexico - Kittle was joined by his wife Claire (R)

The San Francisco players and their partners enjoy a dip in the sea following the Super Bowl

McCaffrey, Juszczyk and Kittle were also spotted chatting to former NFL quarterback Peyton Manning, who was also on vacation in the same area.

Sunday marks a week since San Francisco suffered an overtime loss in the Super Bowl against the Kansas City Chiefs.

The two teams could not be separated over four quarters at Allegiant Stadium before Mecole Hardman scored an overtime touchdown to secure back-to-back Super Bowl crowns for Kansas City.

Taylor Swift's appearance in Las Vegas - to see her boyfriend Travis Kelce - made a lot of headlines around the game.

Earlier in the postseason, the pop sensation wore a custom-fitted jacket made by Kristin Juszczyk.

Kittle's wife Claire (L) and McCaffrey and Culpo chat in the water during the break in Mexico

The players and their WAGs are enjoying a much-needed vacation at the end of a long season

Culpo, a former Miss Universe, enjoys a stroll alongside and Claire Kittle, wife of the tight end

Culpo, meanwhile, tried to surprise McCaffrey's mom, Lisa, with a suite for the Super Bowl but McCaffrey revealed ahead of the game that he had to 'nix' her plans.

The running back stepped in to purchase his family's tickets instead of the former Miss Universe.

'Olivia tried so hard but I'm not letting anyone pay to watch me play,' he told reporters in Las Vegas. 'If my family has to pay to come watch me play, something is seriously wrong.'

The saga stemmed from claims McCaffrey's mom made that neither her NFL star son nor his model fiancee could afford a suite at this year's Super Bowl because of the astronomical prices.

The three NFL players chat to former Super Bowl winning quarterback Peyton Manning

Kyle Juszczyk and his wife Kristin, who made customized jackets for Taylor Swift

Juszczyk, his wife Kristin, tight end Kittle, Culpo and Claire wander on the sand in Mexico

McCaffrey is seen playing a game of softball during the break following the long NFL season