Rooney Mara is expecting her second child with fiancé Joaquin Phoenix — three years after the birth of their son River.

The A Nightmare On Elm Street star, 38, debuted her baby bump on Friday at the premiere of her new film La Cocina during the Berlinale International Film Festival.

She cradled her stomach while posing for photographers on the red carpet in a billowing black strapless dress.

DailyMail.com has reached out to representatives for Rooney and Phoenix for comment.

Rooney and Joaquin quietly welcomed their first child in August 2020.

Rooney Mara revealed she is expecting her second child with fiancé Joaquin Phoenix — three years after the birth of their son River Phoenix - as she debuted her baby bump on Friday

The A Nightmare On Elm Street star, 38, debuted her baby bump on Friday at the premiere of her new film La Cocina during the Berlinale International Film Festival

Mara and Phoenix - who first sparked up a romance upon meeting on set of Her in 2012 - mainly keep their relationship private and out of the spotlight;

It was director Victor Kossakovsky who spilled the beans at the 2020 Zurich Film Festival after a screening of the film Gunda, on which Joaquin served as executive producer.

'He just got a baby by the way... A beautiful son called River,' the director told audience members at a Q&A.

Their son is named after Joaquin's late brother, who tragically died of a drug overdose in 1993. He was just 23-years-old.

Joaquin and Rooney did not officially announce the birth of their firstborn until two months later in an impassioned PEOPLE op-ed about the displaced migrant children at the US-Mexico border.

In the piece, Rooney and Joaquin called the thought of being separated from their own son 'unbearable', and imagined having to answer to him as he grew curious about the subject later in life.

'As new parents, it's unbearable to imagine what it would feel like to have our child taken away from us for a day, let alone years,' the engaged couple wrote.

'But that's the very situation those 545 children and their parents have been living through. As Americans, it's our responsibility to continue paying attention to the plight of these families and get answers for why they still have not been located.'

The couple also wondered how they would be able to explain the situation to their son once he grew more curious about the topic.

She cradled her stomach while posing for photographers on the red carpet in a billowing black strapless dress

Rooney and Joaquin quietly welcomed their first child — three-year-old son River Phoenix — in August 2020

Their son is named after Joaquin's late brother, who tragically died of a drug overdose in 1993. He was just 23-years-old

Joaquin and Rooney did not officially announce the birth of their firstborn until two months later in an impassioned PEOPLE op-ed about the displaced migrant children at the US-Mexico border

'We have to ask ourselves: Is this the country that we want? Are these our values?

'How will it feel to explain to our son, when he asks us about this time and how we treated scared, defenseless children, some of whom may never see their parents again?

'For the sake of our nation's character, I hope we will be able to tell him that America unequivocally rejected this cruelty and demanded that our representatives did everything in their power to find those missing parents.'

Earlier last year in January, Rooney opened up about motherhood while on the LaunchLeft podcast. 'I love it. I love it so much. I think it's the best thing in the world.'

'I mean, it sounds so cliché when you talk about it, but things are cliché for a reason,' the Carol actress expressed, while also discussing how being a mother can also be 'challenging.'

'I also have a very privileged life,' she stated. 'Motherhood is very challenging, even when you have a privileged life, and I'm so lucky that I have the choice to get to be with him most of the time.'

'That I'm like, "Oh, I'm just going to work once a year if something feels right, and other than that, this is what I'm doing." Most people don't have that option.'

Rooney also talked about raising River with her husband and fellow actor, Joaquim Phoenix.

The couple also wondered how they would be able to explain the situation to their son once he grew more curious about the topic

Earlier last year in January, Rooney opened up about motherhood while on the LaunchLeft podcast . 'I love it. I love it so much. I think it's the best thing in the world'

'I mean, it sounds so cliché when you talk about it, but things are cliché for a reason,' the Carol actress expressed, while also discussing how being a mother can also be 'challenging'

Rooney also talked about raising River with her husband and fellow actor, Joaquim Phoenix. 'It doesn't feel like a two-actor house because I didn't work for the first three and a half years we were together,' she said; seen in February 2020

'It doesn't feel like a two-actor house because I didn't work for the first three and a half years we were together,' she said.

'Basically since we've been together, I only worked one or two times and one was really small and short. It feels like a creative household, we're constantly talking about creative things.'

Mara and Phoenix — who first sparked up a romance upon meeting on set of Her in 2012 — mainly keep their relationship private and out of the spotlight.

They starred in another project together in 2016 in the biblical drama titled, Mary Magdalene, which was released in 2018. The following year, the lovebirds privately became engaged.

That same year, Joaquin reflected on the beginning stages of their romance while talking to Vanity Fair.

'She's the only girl I ever looked up on the internet,' the Joker star revealed. 'We were just friends, e-mail friends. I'd never done that. Never looked up a girl online.'

Although the two have yet to confirm if they have said 'I do' or not, Phoenix referenced to Rooney as his 'wife' during an interview with Hello! Magazine in 2022.

Rooney attended the Berlinale International Film Festival on Friday to celebrate the premiere of her latest project titled La Cocina.

The film — which was written and directed by Alonso Ruizpalacios — also stars Raul Briones Carmona, Anna Diaz, Motell Foster and Oded Fehr.

Earlier on Friday before stepping onto the red carpet, Mara notably made an appearance at a photo call for the film (seen above)

The premise of the movie follows, 'the life in the kitchen of a NYC restaurant where cultures from all over the world blend during the lunchtime rush,' per an IMDB synopsis.

Earlier on Friday before stepping onto the red carpet, Mara notably made an appearance at a photo call for the film.

She opted for a chic, all-black ensemble that comprised of a pair of black trousers as well as a plain, black top and an oversized blazer that was left unbuttoned at the front.

The actress slipped into a pair of closed-toed, black pumps and pulled back her locks into a sleek up do.