Blue has been named 'colour of the year' by John Lewis and Benjamin Moore

Now is the time of year when most of us are thinking about ways to lift our spirits.

And with short, dark days still prevailing, it's no surprise that online searches for 'winter blues' are up by 500 per cent in the past three months.

But far from being a tone associated with sluggishness, blue is actually prized for its grounding and reassuring qualities in the home.

Paint specialist Benjamin Moore has recently announced violet-hued Blue Nova as its Colour Of The Year, while John Lewis & Partners has coined blue its Colour Of The Season for spring, with a special focus on powder tones.

Impact: A bedroom with timeless appeal with shades of Bauhaus blue. The colour is prized for its grounding and reassuring qualities in the home

'It's ageless and timeless, from deep shades to desaturated hazy options,' says the chain's Colour Expert Melanie Archer, who's seen searches for 'sky blue' rise by 137 per cent on the brand's website.

'Blue evokes associations with the ocean and the sky, inducing a sense of calm, tranquillity and stability.'

In uncertain times especially, blue, deeply intertwined with our perception of nature, represents safety and security.

Comfort & calm

Once considered a formal colour, used for police and military uniforms as a means of conveying trust, blue has lately shaken off its conservative reputation.

This is a tone with a wide spectrum of shades, making it deeply versatile, whether as a painted backdrop or via wallpaper, furnishings or accessories.

Lighter tones such as baby and powder blue create a feeling of calmness and relaxation, while deeper shades such as navy and royal blue add depth and sophistication.

'Call it neutral fatigue, but we're embracing rich jewel colours, the likes of which we haven't seen since the Seventies,' say King Living's Sebastian Nash.

'Upholstered furniture in teal and turquoise add a sense of refinement and opulence to living room decor. Think of using colour like this as you might add spirits to a cocktail — just a small measure can create significant impact.'

If you're painting walls or considering blue flooring, think about a room's orientation first

Try upholstering a footstool in a deep velvet blue, introducing blue ticking cushions and curtains to bedrooms for a smart look, or repainting panelling or joinery in an evocative Wedgwood blue.

This is a tone that works brilliantly with bright pinks and terracottas too, so to modernise the look, try contrasting painted joinery with colour pops such as a raspberry architrave or windowsill, or pair a mustard yellow chair with deep blue walls.

Natural elements, from sisal to rattan also work brilliantly when anchored by blue. Textures like this create an easy sense of movement.

'I love blues on geometric fabrics, such as Christopher Farr's Travelling Light, which is a fresh and modern pattern,' says interior designer Alice Leigh.

'Velvets, wool and chunky knits will also help soften deep blues by adding visual interest and tactile appeal.'

If you're painting walls or considering blue flooring, think about a room's orientation first.

'Use warmer shades for rooms facing north or east and cooler blues for a south or west-facing room,' counsels Carpetright's Punam Chada.

'Scientifically proven to promote wellness and have a positive effect on the mind, I find that blue breathes fresh life into the home, introducing optimism and positivity. Blue flooring is immediately anchoring.'

In bedrooms, try its Burlington Soft Saxony Carpet in Sky Plain, £45.99 per square metre, for a sense of easy luxury, while the graphic shapes of the Aurora Hexagon Rug, from £79.99, works well in studies, especially since blue is said to enhance concentration.

New wave

Both pale and bold options convey a sense of natural balance. 'Blue echoes a desire for adventure and new experiences, paired with the need to create a sanctuary in our spaces,' believes Benjamin Moore's Helen Shaw.

'Especially with violet undertones, it strikes the perfect balance between mystical and reassuring. Pairing it with punchy colours on the opposite end of the colour wheel, such as oranges and reds, will create a pleasing, cossetting scheme.'

Bear in mind that mid-to-navy acts as a brilliantly effective anchor, working particularly well on woodwork. 'We've seen a real upturn in the demand for deep blues for living room cabinetry and dining spaces,' says Sharps' Rachal Hutcheson.

'These shades work in much the same way as a beautiful foundation garment from your wardrobe might — versatile enough to style up or down to create just the right look and feel. Navy blue is especially timeless because it's a grounding base colour that acts as a natural foil.'

Sometimes, introducing just a few elements of this tone is all that's needed to boost a sense of wellbeing.

Try investing in some new art — H&M Home's Bauhaus Blue poster, from £13.99, adds just the right amount of punch to neutral schemes, while Zara Home's Blue Floral Earthenware Tableware, from £5.99, injects instant spring-like uplift.

And for smart everyday elegance, you can't beat the Abbesses range of tableware at Canvas Home with its simple hand-painted blue rim, £25 for a set of four small plates.

This year, embrace the winter blues and you might just emerge with something of a spring in your step.