Jenna Coleman has appeared to squash rumours that she's tied the knot, after moving her supposed 'wedding ring' to her middle finger.

The actress, 37, has left fans speculating if she has secretly married boyfriend Jamie Childs after being spotted wearing a chunky gold band on her wedding finger several times.

However, on Thursday, Jenna was seen in Covent Garden in London with the ring on her third finger instead.

The Doctor Who star looked typically stylish in a yellow checked trench coat over a black leather maxi skirt.

She added a blue denim shirt and a pair of black loafers, while toting a brown suede Chanel handbag.

Jenna Coleman has appeared to squash rumours that she's tied the knot, after moving her supposed 'wedding ring' to her middle finger

The actress, 37, has left fans speculating if she has secretly married boyfriend Jamie Childs after being spotted wearing a chunky gold band on her wedding finger several times

As she strolled across the street, Jenna flashed a glimpse of her hand, revealing she had removed the gold band from her fourth finger and moved it to a less indicative digit.

Last month, Jenna sparked speculation that she and Jamie, 35, had taken their relationship to the next level after being seen wearing the ring on her wedding finger while on a stroll with the director in North London.

The couple looked loved-up as they walked hand-in-hand, with Jamie tenderly stroking her hair at several points.

While it didn't mark the first time she'd been seen wearing the ring, she usually wore it on a different finger – leading to speculation that the move was significant.

Jenna and Jamie met on the set of Netflix series The Sandman in 2020 and have been working together again on Jamie's first film Jackdaw, which was released last month.

Jenna previously dated Tom Hughes , who played her husband Prince Albert in ITV's Victoria, for seven years.

They met in 2013 on the set of BBC drama series Dancing On The Edge, but went their separate ways in 2020.

Before Tom, Jenna was in a relationship with Bodyguard and Game Of Thrones star Richard Madden.

Jenna and Jamie met on the set of Netflix series The Sandman in 2020 and have been working together again on Jamie's first film Jackdaw, which was released last month (pictured together in September)

The actress is currently filming new BBC detective drama The Jetty which is expected to hit screens next year.

The series synopsis teases: 'As Ember gets close to the truth, it threatens to destroy her life – forcing her to re-evaluate everything she thought she knew about her past, present and the town she’s always called home'.

In the four-part series, a fire wrecks a holiday home in a Lancashire lake town and Jenna's character Detective Ember is tasked with seeing how the blaze connects to a podcast journalist, who is investigating a crime.

The journalist is looking into a missing persons cold case and an illicit 'love' triangle between a man in his twenties and two underage girls.

While she starts to close in on answers, Ember's life begins to fall apart, as she is driven to face up to her past, present and the town she's always called home.

The Jetty is designed to delve into the moral legacy of the Me Too movement and ask questions about sexual morality, identity and memory.