Mason Holgate was shown red card just 13 minutes into his clash with Brighton

Mason Holgate became the quickest player to be sent off this season after he was dismissed just 13 minutes into Sheffield United's clash with Brighton.

The on-loan Blades defender lunged into a tackle on Brighton's Kaoru Mitoma in the opening exchanges at Bramall Lane, in a collision that sparked outrage from the away side.

Holgate was initially shown a yellow card for the tackle before referee Stuart Atwell checked with his assistants, and after a second look on the VAR screen, the punishment was upgraded to a straight red card.

The dismissal isn't just the quickest sending off of the season, but the earliest straight red card in the competition since Nathaniel Chalobah's dismissal for Fulham against Newcastle in October 2022.

Reacting to the incident at half-time, Jamie Redknapp labelled the challenge 'one of the worst tackles' he had ever seen and urged it could have ended Mitoma's career.

'It's an assault, one of the worst tackles I've seen in years,' Redknapp said on Sky Sports. 'Even in my era, that would've been a scandalous tackle.

The tackle which saw the Blades Mason Holgate earn the quickest red card of the season

After initially showing a yellow, the referee sent off Holgate for the tackle on Kaoru Mitoma

Jamie Redknapp labelled the challenge 'scandalous' and said it could've ended Mitoma's career

Mason Holgate is sent off for Sheffield United after just 10 minutes of play at Bramall Lane 🟥 pic.twitter.com/DO31aRgvEG — Sky Sports Premier League (@SkySportsPL) February 18, 2024

Your browser does not support iframes.

'How on earth Mitoma's managed to get his left leg out of the way, I have no idea. Thank goodness he has, otherwise that's career ending. His career would be finished.

'I feel so sorry for Chrissy Wilder in this instance. He's made plans and said, "let's not make mistakes or give anything away this first 10 minutes", and you have a player that does that.

'I have no idea what he's thinking but he's cost his team. They've got to run around, chase, try and get in the game and obviously goals are going to come from that. But a scandalous tackle.'

Fans were also quick to condemn the defender on social media, with most suggesting that it was one of the nastiest tackles they'd seen this campaign.

'That’s one of the worst challenges I’ve ever seen from Mason Holgate. Deserves a big ban. Outrageous,' one fan immediately posted upon seeing the tackle.

Several posts echoed the same with one stating: 'That Holgate challenges is one of the worst I’ve ever seen goodness me.' A third said: 'Disgraceful challenge that from Holgate. Awful stuff.'

Another couldn't believe that the referee and not seen it was a red straight away before checking with VAR and said: 'How’s the ref only give that a yellow initially? That was a horror tackle by Holgate!'

Holgate only joined Sheffield United on loan from Everton last month but has endured a difficult start to his career at Bramall Lane.

"It's one of the worst tackles I've seen in years" 😨



Jamie Redknapp says Mason Holgate's tackle on Kaoru Mitoma was 'scandalous'. pic.twitter.com/6PDmlG0Oyx — Sky Sports Premier League (@SkySportsPL) February 18, 2024

Supporters took to social media to show their disgust at Mason Holgate's horror tackle

Wilder shows his frustration as his Sheffield United team go down to ten men after 13 minutes

The Blades were thrashed 5-0 by Aston Villa on his debut for the club, and now his red card has come in only his second appearance for Chris Wilder's side.

The defender is no stranger to seeing red, in fact since the start of 2021-22, no player has been given more red cards in the Premier League than the 27-year-old.

Holgate's sending off kicked-off a miserable afternoon for Sheffield United, with Brighton taking the lead just eight minutes later through Facundo Buonanotte.

Wilder's side remain rooted to the bottom of the Premier League table and are currently seven points from safety.