Forget being merely a hotspot - South Korea is 'on fire', according to one TikTok traveller.

Adriana Neptuna asks: 'Why isn't this a more popular holiday destination?', adding: 'It's literally jam-packed full of cute things to do.'

Australian-born Adriana pinpoints one attraction in particular as an example - the Sky Capsule in the coastal city of Busan, which she labels in a TikTok clip as 'definitely a bucket-list activity'.

The Sky Capsule is a railway elevated to a height of 10m (32ft), with passengers travelling back and forth along the beachfront in colourful pods decorated with quirky cartoon characters and retro designs.

Adriana told MailOnline Travel: 'It gives you 360-degree views of the incredible scenery. On one side is the rugged coastline and on the other side are beautiful forests, mountain ranges and the city of Busan.'

TikToker Adriana Neptuna describes the Sky Capsule in the South Korean coastal city of Busan as 'definitely a bucket-list activity'

Australian-born Adriana (above) told MailOnline Travel: '[The Sky Capsule] gives you 360-degree views of the incredible scenery. On one side is the rugged coastline and on the other side are beautiful forests, mountain ranges and the city of Busan'

She recalled going at sunset which 'definitely added to the magic'.

The 1.2-mile (2km) journey takes around 30 minutes, says Tripadvisor, and runs from Haeundae Mipo to the seaside village of Cheongsapo.

It costs just 30,000 South Korean won (£18) for a one-way journey for two people, according to Haeundae Blueline Park (HBP).

The park, which operates the Sky Capsule, said the ride is part of an old abandoned railway that has been transformed as part of an 'eco-friendly initiative'.

The Sky Capsule is a railway elevated to a height of 10m (32ft), with passengers travelling back and forth along the Busan beachfront in colourful pods decorated with quirky cartoon characters and retro designs

Your browser does not support iframes.

Adriana explained that each pod can fit four people and is private, meaning you 'don't share with anyone you don't know'.

Touching on the railway's history, she praised the overall regeneration project as 'something tourists can now appreciate', which encourages them to 'explore more rural areas up and down the coast of Busan', including the 'excellent glass walkways jutting out into the sea'.

Other visitors of the Sky Capsule gave it mixed reviews on Tripadvisor.

'MissIndy' said it's 'a pretty coastline, but it would be better experienced by walking the route', while 'Jon M' called it a 'typically overrated "tourist attraction".'

In a more positive review, 'Fikri' praised the 'amazing train', adding: 'The place is so beautiful and it has many amazing stations where you can stop and take a picture. But beware because it's quite windy there. I really love this place.'

Adriana explained that each pod can fit four people and is private, meaning you 'don't share with anyone you don't know'

The 1.2-mile (2km) journey takes around 30 minutes, says Tripadvisor , and runs from Haeundae Mipo to the seaside village of Cheongsapo

The Haeundae Beach Train (above) runs alongside the Sky Capsule at ground level

Offering advice to future visitors, 'Hyejin L' recommended travelling in the direction from Mipo Station to Cheongsapo 'if you want to see the sea better' and then taking the walking trail back to Mipo Station 'to feel the nature properly'.

The Sky Capsule is one of many ways to explore Busan's beachfront with HBP.

On its website, the park says the attraction is part of an 'eco-friendly redevelopment of the old railway facility of the East Sea South Line'.

This also includes the Haeundae Beach Train, which runs alongside the Sky Capsule, at ground level.

The sightseeing railway 'operates six stops along the scenic coastline from Mipo to Songjeong', according to Korea To Do.

For those who prefer to walk, the Busan Green Railway is a coastal walking trail on a wooden deck that runs alongside the beach train and covers the same distance, the website adds.

For more from Adriana visit www.wanderlicious.co.uk/post/sky-capsule-busan-haeundae-blueline-park and www.tiktok.com/@wanderlicious.adri.