Nicole Scherzinger showed off her jaw-dropping figure as she posed for a slew of sizzling Instagram snaps in the Maldives on Saturday.

The singer, 45, has been sharing plenty of snaps from her romantic getaway with her fiancé Thom Evans, 38.

Nicole put on a busty display in a leopard print bikini top and matching bottoms, before slipping into a black two-piece and posing in the ocean.

The TV personality turned heads in a hot pink midi dress and sandals as she headed out for the evening.

She posed in front of the lavish villas and captioned the holiday photodump: 'Maldives Diaries'

Nicole Scherzinger showed off her jaw-dropping figure in a leopard print bikini in a slew of sizzling Instagram snaps in the Maldives on Saturday

Nicole put on a busty display in a leopard print bikini top and matching bottoms, before slipping into a black two-piece and posing in the ocean

It comes after Nicole recently set pulses racing as she showcased her incredible figure in a series of sizzling snaps she shared on Friday.

Sharing more snaps from their trip to the exotic location, Nicole s lipped into a white and black striped bikini that highlighted her toned midriff.

Striking a playful pose as she took a dip in the pool, Nicole let her raven locks fall loose down her shoulders as she worked on her tan.

Alongside the post, she wrote: 'Norma in the sun! Sun-kissed and salty hair'.

Nicole and Tom, who popped the question last June , are enjoying a luxury stay at Finolhu Baa Atoll Maldives which starts a £1,800 a night.

Nicole and Thom first met when he starred on Celebrity X Factor in 2019, with Thom claiming he had 'hit the jackpot' with Nicole.

The holiday comes after the news that Nicole 's critically-acclaimed West End show Sunset Boulevard is heading to Broadway.

The singer, 45, has been sharing plenty of snaps from her romantic getaway with her fiancé Thom Evans, 38

The TV personality turned heads in a hot pink midi dress and sandals as she headed out for the evening

She posed in front of the lavish villas and captioned the holiday photodump: 'Maldives Diaries'

The actress will be making her Broadway debut this year when the musical opens in New York City.

Broadway 2024, the Sunset Boulevard Instagram account announced earlier this month.

'Nicole Scherzinger, Tom Francis, Grace Hodgett-Young and David Thaxton star in Andrew Lloyd Webber ’s #SunsetBlvd, reimagined by visionary director Jamie Lloyd. Be the first to get tickets. Sign up now at sunsetblvdbroadway.com.'

While no specific opening date was provided, fans will be able to receive future information by signing up on the website. Citing sources, The New York Post has reported that the musical will open at the St. James Theater in November.

Nicole stars as silent movie star Norma Desmond in the Andrew Lloyd Webber musical, which is based on the film by Billy Wilder.

In November, Nicole was awarded Best Musical Performance at the Evening Standard Theatre Awards for her role in Sunset Boulevard.

The former Pussycat Doll couldn't control her emotions as she took to the stage at London's swanky Claridge's Hotel to accept the honour for her showstopping turn .

She had been up against A Strange Loop's Kyle Ramar Freeman, Crazy For You's Charlie Stemp and Guys & Dolls' Marisha Wallace for the award.

It comes after Nicole recently set pulses racing as she showcased her incredible figure in a series of sizzling snaps she shared on Friday

Composer Andrew Lloyd Webber was not able to attend the awards in person but said that his leading lady had 'given us a performance for the ages.'

Nicole then welled up as she revealed that her role as Norma Desmond in the atmospheric musical had helped her 'be accepted by London’s theatre community.'

Nicole's new role marked her return to the stage, eight years after she was nominated for an Olivier Award for her portrayal of Grizabella in Cats.

Her musical comeback was heralded a success by Daily Mail reviewer Luke Jones who gave her a five star review.