READ MORE: From Taylor Swift to Olivia Rodrigo, celebs with secret boob jobs

Doctors have flocked to social media to voice concerns about the health of comedian Amy Schumer’s, after a recent television appearence in which her face seemed unusually swollen and puffy.

The Life & Beth star, 42, appeared Wednesday as a guest on the Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon.

After her slot, a clip of her discussing her love for Taylor Swift and Beyonce made the rounds on TikTok and X, formerly known as Twitter, with doctors posing the question to the public, ‘What happened to Amy’s face?’

Doctors and viewers were quick to assume that Amy is taking a steroids like prednisone and dexamethosone, which are used to treat inflammation.

Medical professionals also suggested that Amy could have an autoimmune condition like lupus or a hormone imbalance - which can also trigger swelling.

The actress has previously been open about her struggles with endometriosis, chronic pain, and Lyme disease, all of which could lead to steroid use and swelling in the face.

The actor has admitted to using cheek fillers in the past - a treatment known to cause puffiness if performed badly.

Doctors and other medical experts voiced concerns over Amy Schumer's health, as her face appeared swollen in an interview with Jimmy Fallon (right) on Wednesday

The 42-year-old comedian was pictured arriving at the NBC television studios in New York on Wednesday

Dr Jebra Faushay, a gender studies academic, wrote on X, formerly Twitter: 'I'm going to need all surgeons and doctors to weigh in here. Serious question, what happened to Amy's face? Is it normally this size?'

Sarah Absher, a registered nurse, replied: 'Honestly it looks like what is referred to as "moon face," a condition associated with long term steroid use.'

Users pointed out the specific steroids prednisone and dexamethosone, which are used for conditions that cause inflammation, such as asthma, allergic reactions, inflammatory bowel disease, and migraines.

These are different than anabolic steroids, which increase testosterone levels to enhance athletic performance.

'Moon face' is a common side effect, which leads to the face becoming round, full, and puffy.

Medications like prednisone are only meant to be taken for a few days at a time, as long-term use could cause adrenal insufficiency, also known as Addison's Disease. This causes the body to not make enough of the stress hormone cortisol.

Lisa Clark, a nurse in Miami, also noted that Amy's swelling could be due to a cortisol imbalance.

Even without taking steroids, a cortisol imbalance can occur due to stress or tumors pressing on the adrenal glands or the brain's pituitary gland.

'I’ve also seen similiar affects in lupus,' Ms Clark said, nothing that it is difficult to know for sure without more details on Amy's medical history.

In 2021, Amy posted a photo of herself inside of what appeared to be a doctor's office getting her face filler dissolved

Lupus is an autoimmune disease that occurs when the immune system attacks the body's own tissues and organs. According to the Mayo Clinic, side effects include fatigue, fever, joint pain, swelling, a butterfly-shaped rash on the face, skin lesions, shortness of breath, chest pain, and dry eyes.

Prednisone is also often prescribed for lupus symptoms.

Additionally, some X users suggested that Amy could have Cushing syndrome, which is when the body makes too much cortisol.

This leads to weight gain throughout the body, including in the face, as well as acne and slow wound healing.

In addition to the social media speculation, Amy has been open about her struggles with several other conditions.

In 2022, she opened up about her battle with endometriosis, which occurs when tissue grows around the uterus and gets trapped, causing debilitating pain and heavy bleeding, especially during menstrual cycles.

In a CBS News interview, Amy called it a 'lonely, lonely disease.'

Many patients with endometriosis take medications to regulate their reproductive hormones known as progestins.

According to Mount Sinai, taking these medications can lead to water retention, which can cause the face to swell.

In 2020, the actress also revealed that she was diagnosed with Lyme disease, which is transmitted by black-legged ticks carrying either the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi or, more rarely, Borrelia mayonii.

Common signs of Lyme disease, according to the Mayo Clinic, include a bullseye-shaped rash, fever, headache, extreme tiredness, joint stiffness, and muscle aches and pains.

Additionally, the condition can cause swollen lymph nodes, which can make cheeks look puffy.

And in 2021, Amy opened up about her experience getting face fillers, cosmetic injections that smooth lines and wrinkles.

A common side effect of these is facial swelling, and though she said she had the fillers dissolved, it is possible that she has gotten similar treatments again.

Though some trolls took the opportunity to make fun of Amy, other fans voiced their support of her and well wishes.

A user named JC wrote: 'That's a steroid to treat illness. Let's be kind and mind our own business.'

Dr Tatiana Prowell, an oncologist in Maryland, said: 'Let’s not. Instead let’s stop normalizing commenting on women’s faces/bodies for sport.'

'Let’s stop inviting drs to speculate about the diagnosis of people whose history they don’t know. Let’s stop inviting trolls to fat-shame people. Let’s be better.'

And Olympic skiier Lindsey Vonn said: 'Maybe just let her live. Why do people feel the need to judge people’s physical appearance? You have no idea what’s going on in her life so any comment here is pure speculation, unnecessary and hurtful.'