Elizabeth Hurley made a glamorous appearance alongside her son Damian at Tod's Cocktail Party and Dinner as part of New York Ready to Wear Fashion Week.

The actress, 58, looked incredible in the plunging black lace dress, which featured risqué lace panels, flashing some skin as she posed for snaps on Tuesday.

Elizabeth boosted her already statuesque frame with a pair of black strappy heels and added a pendant necklace and hoops to complete the look.

The British star wore her chestnut locks in soft waves and opted for full glamour with a dewy pallet of make-up and smokey eyes.

Elizabeth's son Damian, 21, cut a stylish figure as he posed beside his famous mother in a tailored black suit with an unbuttoned white shirt.

Elizabeth Hurley made a glamorous appearance alongside her son Damian at Tod's Cocktail Party and Dinner as part of New York Ready to Wear Fashion Week

The actress, 58, looked incredible in the plunging black lace dress, which featured risqué lace panels, flashing some skin as she posed for snaps on Tuesday

The British star wore her chestnut locks in soft waves and opted for full glamour with a dewy pallet of make-up and smokey eyes

The actor and model accessorised with a chain necklace and a pair of western-style boots, while he wore his shoulder length locks loose.

During the party, Elizabeth caught up with her Gossip Girl co-star Kelly Rutherford, who played Lily van der Woodsen in the privileged teen drama.

Elizabeth portrayed wealthy British businesswoman Diana Payne, who appeared only in the fifth season of the popular series.

The mother and son duo also were pictured with the Tod's chairman Diego Della Valle and his brother and vice chairman Andrea Della Valle.

Elizabeth's trip to New York comes after she spent time in at the luxury medical health resort, VIVAMAYR, in Maria Wörth, Austria, earlier this month.

Sharing snaps to Instagram, Elizabeth looked incredible as she lounged in a sauna, showcasing her jaw-dropping physique in a halter neck bikini-top, which lighted her ample assets, and matching skimpy bottoms.

In the gallery of saucy pictures, Elizabeth posed on her side, before rolling onto her back as she enjoyed the relaxation session at the spa.

Keeping it glamorous, Elizabeth opted for a full face of make-up including a heavy eye look and wore her hair in a bouncy, blown out style.

Elizabeth's son Damian, 21, cut a stylish figure as he posed beside his famous mother in a tailored black suit with an unbuttoned white shirt

Elizabeth boosted her already statuesque frame with a pair of black strappy heels and added a pendant necklace and hoops to complete the look

The actor and model accessorised with a chain necklace and a pair of western-style boots, while he wore his shoulder length locks loose

During the party, Elizabeth caught up with her Gossip Girl co-star Kelly Rutherford (right), who played Lily van der Woodsen in the privileged teen drama

The mother and son duo also were pictured with the Tod's chairman Diego Della Valle and his brother and vice chairman Andrea Della Valle

Diego, Elizabeth, Damian and Andrea posed for a group photo

Revealing what she had instore for the day ahead, Elizabeth wrote: ' Good morning! May the exercise, detox and healthy eating commence.'

Sharing her admiration for the snaps, Abbey Clancy, who also follows the health and wellness resort on Instagram, wrote: 'Absolutely perfection.'

Before jetting to Austria, Elizabeth had been spending time at home in the UK after kicking of 2024 in St Moriz.

The Gossip Girl actress was most recently pictured enjoying a night out with her long-time pal and fashion guru Trinny Woodall.

In January, Elizabeth took to Instagram to give her followers an insight into her luxury holiday, including one of herself standing in front of a snowy backdrop.

'On Top of the World Loving 2024', she wrote.

The former model reunited with her ex-husband Arun Nayar to celebrate New Year's Eve together.

The actress and the multi-millionaire textile heir, 59, were married from 2007 to 2011, but have remained good friends after their divorce.

In a fun snap posted by Elizabeth's son Damian, 21, the pair were branded 'mama and daddy' as they cosied up at a party.

Arun is not Damian's biological father, but Elizabeth has previously said she always considered him to be his dad after the former couple got married when Damian was five.

Elizabeth's trip to New York comes after she spent time in at the luxury medical health resort, VIVAMAYR, in Maria Wörth, Austria, earlier this month