Cliffs of Moher (Epsom, 4.30) is named in honour of one of Ireland's most picturesque natural wonders and the equine version could be poised to deliver a performance of beauty in Saturday afternoon's Investec Derby.

The presence of six runners representing Ballydoyle in Saturday's feature suggests trainer Aidan O'Brien may not perceive the son of Galileo to be a definitive No 1 pick, but Ryan Moore was keen to maintain the association and that could be a steer in itself.

A 19-runner Derby around Epsom's unique undulations and cambers makes this year's renewal a hair-raising experience, but Cliffs of Moher will have learned a lot from his Chester expedition last time and I was left with the impression his trainer only just had him fit enough to run that day.

Cliffs of Moher is improving and will have learned from his last outing in Chester last month

Jockey Ryan Moore was keen to maintain the association and will fancy his chances

The son of Galileo stepped forward enormously for his subdued debut as a juvenile last October, routing stablemate Orderofthegarter by five lengths at Leopardstown a fortnight later to head into the winter as a potential Derby contender.

His speed at Leopardstown was one of the quickest recorded for a juvenile in recent seasons and the lofty rating led some to question if Cliffs of Moher possessed the required stamina to win a Derby given he appeared to boast so much latent speed.

However, his sire Galileo has produced three winners of Saturday's great race in New Approach, Ruler Of The World and Australia and there is plenty of stamina on the female side of the pedigree.

In truth, the selection took a while to wind up at Chester, which suggests the step up in trip on Saturday holds no huge concerns and he looks nicely drawn to try to deliver O'Brien a sixth winner in the race.

Cracksman heads a dangerous field in a wide open race but Cliffs of Moher has the stamina

William Buick is relishing ride on 'improving' Permian in the Investec Derby on Saturday

Trainer Aidan O'Brien has six contenders

In a big field, there are clearly a host of dangers in the market, not least Cracksman, who represents Friday's Investec Oaks winning duo, John Gosden and Frankie Dettori, and will surely be vying for favouritism.

Although the son of Frankel looked as if he needed all of the 10 furlongs when successful on his reappearance at Saturday's venue, his breeding suggests another couple of furlongs at championship pace may find him out and I prefer the tough Permian to make a telling impact.

Permian was collared by Cracksman when they met in April but has since improved beyond all recognition with a commanding Listed-race success at Newmarket prior to a game defeat of Benbatl in the Dante at York.

Double-figure quotes for a thriving stayer with a superb will to win look a shade generous. Venice Beach may need motivating but he does stay well and his confirmed stamina and ability to handle an easy surface will be well served if further showers hit the track.