NBA Hall of Famer Scottie Pippen made a cryptic Instagram post after his ex-wife Larsa split up with former teammate Michael Jordan's son Marcus.

Shortly after the pair called it quits, Pippen made a post to promote his bourbon brand 'Digits'. However, many took the imagery and choice of words on the post differently as it appeared applicable to the situation.

Pippen posted an AI-generated animation of himself smoking a cigar with Marvin Gaye's 'Trouble Man' playing in the background.

'You gotta boss up quietly, they already don't like you,' Pippen wrote. 'Silence is the strategy, success is the result.'

Users raved about the post being a double entendre as Pippen has held his tongue through the noise and unwanted press that was brought on by the relationship.

Scottie Pippen made a cryptic Instagram post after ex-wife Larsa's split with Marcus Jordan

Larsa and Marcus confirmed that they were dating in 2023 and split up about a year later

Marcus is the son of Michael Jordan who Pippen won six NBA championships with in Chicago

After winning six NBA titles together in Chicago, Pippen and Jordan's already dented relationship took another blow when Larsa and Marcus began dating.

The first hit was thrown when Pippen heavily criticized Jordan's 'The Last Dance' docuseries. Pippen cited how Jordan skipped over majority of the players who helped him achieve two three-peats in the NBA, including himself.

One year later, Scottie and Larsa's second divorce was finalized in December of 2021. Within the next year, Larsa was continuously spotted with Marcus as their relationship began to blossom. The pair confirmed their relationship through Instagram last year on Valentines Day.

Michael, who many consider the greatest basketball player of all time, was quite vocal about the relationship while it lasted. When TMZ asked Jordan if he approves of his son's relationship with the reality TV star, he simply said 'No.'

Larsa said she was 'embarrassed' and 'traumatized' by the comment, but Marcus assured her that his father was joking.

Whether or not Jordan and Pippen could reconcile now that the drama is off the table remains a question.