Cillian Murphy couldn't wipe the smile off his face after winning the Best Actor BAFTA for his role in Oppenheimer on Sunday, as the movie swept the board bagging seven gongs.

The actor, 47, who plays the titular role in Christopher Nolan's atomic bomb saga, picked up the prize at the star-studded London's Royal Festival Hall ceremony.

Cillian was pictured enjoying a glass of fizz while proudly clutching his trophy backstage.

He was joined by Hoyte van Hoytema - who won the Best Cinematography Awards - and Robert Downey Jr.

Oppenheimer won Best Film as well as sweeping the board in the major categories at the BAFTA Film Awards.

Cillian Murphy couldn't wipe the smile off his face after winning the Best Actor BAFTA for his role in Oppenheimer on Sunday, as the movie swept the board bagging seven gongs

The actor, 47, was joined by Hoyte van Hoytema - who won the Best Cinematography Awards - and Robert Downey Jr

The epic biographical thriller led the wins with seven gongs, including Best Actor for Cillian Murphy, Best Supporting Actor for Robert Downey Jr. and Best Director for Christopher Nolan. It had the most nominations with 13.

The biggest night in British film returned with actor David Tennant as host and an array of guest presenters on hand to deliver awards throughout the night.

Prince William attended the ceremony in London solo as his wife Kate Middleton continues her recovery from last month's abdominal surgery.

Cillian - who plays the titular role in Nolan's atomic bomb saga - picked up the prize at the prestigious awards ceremony.

He triumphed against Bradley Cooper for Maestro, Colman Domingo for Rustin, Paul Giamatti for The Holdovers, Barry Keoghan for Saltburn and Teo Yoo for Past Lives.

Accepting the trophy, he said: 'Oh boy, holy moly, thank you very, very much BAFTA.'

He paid tribute to 'the most dynamic, kindest producer-director partnership in Hollywood: Chris Nolan and Emma Thomas, thank you for seeing something in me that I probably didn't see in myself.'

Cillian was pictured enjoying a glass of fizz while proudly clutching his trophy backstage

Robert was also thrilled after bagging the best Supporting Actor Award

Cillian caught up with Rami Malek and Emma Corrin at the BAFTAs dinner party

Rami and Emma couldn't keep their hands off each other as they embraced at the BAFTA Film Awards on Sunday night

Blunt and her Oppenheimer co-star Murphy were in high spirits as they posed for snaps together after the ceremony, where they were both nominated for their roles in the Nolan epic

The Irish actor said to Nolan: 'Thank for always pushing me and demanding excellence because that is what you deliver time and time again.'

Nolan also acknowledged his 'fellow nominees and my Oppenhomies', adding: 'I know it's a cliche to say, but I'm in awe of you.'

He said J Robert Oppenheimer was a 'colossally knotty character', adding: 'We have a space to debate and interrogate and investigate that complexity and it's a privilege to be a part of this community with you all.

Downey Jr, 58, also collected a BAFTA for his role as Lewis Strauss in the Hollywood blockbuster, which has swept the board during the 2024 awards season.

He admitted he owes the award to Nolan, producer Emma Thomas and leading man Murphy, as well as 'British influence'.

Gesturing to Nolan, he said: 'Recently that dude suggested I attempt an understated approach as a last ditch effort to resurrect my dwindling credibility.'

Barbie director Greta Gerwig and Ryan Gosling had a catch up after the star-studded ceremony

Phoebe Dynevor and Daisy Edgar Jones pose during the star-studded BAFTA dinner party

Hannah Waddingham slipped into a glamorous black strapless gown after performing at the ceremony

Paul Mescal, Andrew Scott and Teo Yoo celebrated at the dinner party

Andrew was later pictured giggling and catching up with Rosamund Pike

Idris Elba and his wife Sabrina looked as smitten as ever as they posed for playful snaps backstage at the Awards

Samantha Morton and Michael J. Fox at the event

Gillian Anderson looked sensational in an emerald green dress at dinner

Paul Mescal and Alison Oliver cosied up for a snap

Andrew Scott, Ayo Edebiri, Paul and Alison Oliver enjoyed the fun night together

Yorgos Lanthimos and Emma Stone at the dinner party after her success

The 77th BAFTA Awards saw the best and biggest names in film descend upon the The Royal Festival Hall in London on Sunday

Downey Jr's win set a new record for the longest gap between wins by any performer as it comes 31 years after his previous BAFTA, for the 1993 film Chaplin.

The previous record was 27 years, set by Sir Anthony Hopkins in 2021 when he won the award for best actor for The Father, nearly three decades after his 1994 win for Shadowlands.

Nolan won the Best Director BAFTA for Oppenheimer, his epic tale of how the nuclear bomb was created.

Before accepting the award from actor Hugh Grant, Nolan hugged Murphy.

Nolan joked that his brother 'beat him up here' by being in a chorus of a production 40 years ago.

Nolan has previously lost out despite numerous commercial successes such as Inception and The Dark Knight, the UK-born filmmaker won out against Jonathan Glazer [The Zone of Interest], Justine Triet [Anatomy of a Fall], Alexander Payne [The Holdovers], Bradley Cooper [Maestro] and Andrew Haigh [All of Us Strangers].

Cillian accepted the Leading Actor Award for Oppenheimer

Christopher Nolan won the Best Director BAFTA for Oppenheimer, his epic tale of how the nuclear bomb was created

Cillian, Christopher Nolan, Charles Roven and Emma Thomas accept Best Film Award

He paid tribute to Murphy and added to those who backed the film: 'Thank you for taking on something dark'.

The director also acknowledged the efforts of nuclear disarmament organisations to bring peace.

Oppenheimer swept up in the big name categories, but it was closely followed by the surreal black comedy Poor Things.

It marked five awards for the film, as Emma Stone collected the Best Actress gong for her turn as Bella Baxter.