Travis Kelce was forced to move out of his home in Kansas City because of the hysteria surrounding his relationship with Taylor Swift.

Kelce's fame has skyrocketed since he and Swift went public with their romance back in September, with the celebrity power-couple dominating headlines over the past five months.

Shortly after the pop sensation attended her first Chiefs game, Travis moved into a new mansion in Kansas City amid reports suggesting he was uneasy with how accessible his old house was to the public with his fame rising.

And during an appearance on Shaquille O'Neal's 'The Big Podcast', the Chiefs star's brother Jason has confirmed he did exactly that for 'safety reasons' amid the craze over his relationship with Swift.

'I mean, he [Travis] had to move completely out of his house,' Jason said. 'People were just standing by his house.

Travis Kelce was forced to move out of his home in Kansas City because of the hysteria surrounding his relationship with Taylor Swift

Kelce's fame has skyrocketed since he and Swift went public with their romance in September

The Chiefs star's brother Jason says he had to move out of his home for 'safety reasons'

Travis moved into this $6million mansion in Kansas City shortly after he began dating Swift - where a crazed fan also found a way to get in and knock on his window

'Yeah [he had to move out] for safety reasons.'

After selling his old home, Travis moved into a new $6million mansion in a gate community which boasts six bedrooms, six baths, and sprawls across 17,000 sq ft.

The property's three acres of land feature scenic leafy gardens that shelter the home from view. The expansive grounds are complete with bridges, winding paths, a gazebo, patio and seating areas for lounging around the pool.

However, Jason went on to add that a crazed member of the public found a way into Travis' new mansion and knocked on his window on the first day he moved in.

The Philadelphia Eagles veteran continued: 'The first day he moved into his new house, a gated community, somebody knocks on the back window of the house.'

Jason added that he and his brother are still adjusting to the increased attention on them.

'We're still learning. I mean, so listen, we've always been big in the football world, Travis especially,' he said.

'Taylor World and the pop culture world, that's a whole different level. You're in a different, it's just an added level of, it's a new demographic that wasn't there before.'

Kelce's celebrations with Swift went viral across the world after Chiefs won Super Bowl LVIII

Jason watched his brother claim victory in a suite alongside Swift and friends in Vegas

Swift embarked on a mad 5,000-mile rush from Tokyo to Las Vegas last weekend for Super Bowl LVIII, where Kelce and theChiefs prevailed in a thriller against the San Francisco 49ers

Following an epic party in Vegas to toast their victory, the singer and songwriter waved goodbye to Travis again and headed off on another long trip to Melbourne, Australia, for the next leg of her Eras Tour.

According to The US Sun, Swift was greeted by a number of lavish Valentine's Day gifts from Kelce when she arrived in Australia this week.

The Kansas City legend is said to have spent close to $14,000 on presents for his girlfriend, who was getting herself back into work mode when she received the Valentine's surprise.