Are YOU affected by this?

Are YOU affected by this? Email alesia.fiddler@mailonline.co.uk

Neighbours have spoke of their 'nightmare' at living next to a house which has been swallowed up by nature after trees and ivy were allowed to grow out of control for 40 years.

The end-terraced property in King's Norton, Birmingham, has been rendered virtually invisible after disappearing under a blanket of thick foliage over the decades.

Not even the chimney can be seen as the front garden is so overrun with plants and a mass of greenery has spread across almost the entire front of the house.

Vivienne Attwood, a mother-of-four, lives next door to the end-terraced property in King's Norton, Birmingham and has described it a 'nightmare'.

Are YOU affected by this? Email alesia.fiddler@mailonline.co.uk

Vivienne Attwood (pictured), a mother-of-four, lives next door to the end-terraced property in King's Norton, Birmingham and has described it a 'nightmare'

The house has been swallowed by nature and rendered virtually invisible after disappearing under a blanket of thick foliage over the decades

Not even the chimney can be seen as the front garden is so overrun with plants and a mass of greenery has spread across almost the entire front of the house

Thick trees and branches can be seen through the windows of the house in the online auction listing

The house is owned by a woman, in her 90s, who has now gone to live in a care home.

Local residents say the three bedroomed house has been a blot of the landscape for decades after the 'nature-loving' homeowner neglected to cut back the plants.

Ms Attwood said: 'It's been a nightmare. We just hope now it's being sold, the new owners will clear it up but they will have a big job on their hands.

'It's like living next to West Midlands Safari Park. It's good for wildlife but not for my guttering and roof. I'm worried about what its done to the value of our houses too.

'My husband goes up on the ladders and trims it back whenever it encroaches and luckily we've stopped it getting into our roof.

'She's always had it this way just not to this extent. We moved in 40 years ago and it was just allowed to grow and grow from there.'

The plants were allowed to grow out of control for 40 years

The house is owned by a woman, in her 90s, who has now gone to live in a care home

Local residents say the three bedroomed house has been a blot of the landscape for decades after the 'nature-loving' homeowner neglected to cut back the plants

The three-bedroomed house could be snapped up at auction for just £25,000 as it is currently listed on Rightmove

Ms Attwood described it, 'like living next to West Midlands Safari Park'

She said her husband has to climb up ladders to cut the trees back when they grow over to their house

Ms Attwood said the owner always had lots of plants but 'not to this extent'

The doctor's receptionist added: 'But she used to have somebody in to trim it back until about 10-15 years ago when it was left completely untouched.

'It has then been allowed to completely take over the entire house. You can't even really tell there's a house there now.

'You get people walking by stopping in their tracks as they can't quite believe it. It's not every day you get a massive tree house in Birmingham.

'She had volunteers offer to cut it back - but she refused as she said she liked nature. She was stubborn.

'Although it attracted plenty of wildlife, it has attracted rats too so it's not been nice.

'But because of her age we never really thought we could complain. We always said we would but never got around to it.'

The three-bedroomed house could be snapped up at auction for just £25,000 as it is currently listed on Rightmove.

Another neighbour, who did not want to be named, added: 'The sooner somebody buys it the better as it's looked an eyesore for years now.

The doctor's receptionist said the mass of greenery has attracted rats

Neighbours hope that the house is bought soon so the plants can be tidied

Pictured: Plants growing over the roof of the house in Birmingham

Another neighbour, who did not want to be named, described the house as an 'eyesore'

The owner allegedly refused help with the garden from volunteers, according to neighbours

Agent Bond Wolfe in Birmingham is advertising the property, which will be auctioned on February 8, on Rightmove

A brief outline describes it as 'an end terraced property standing back from the road behind a foregarden'

Pictured: A view of the street where the house is located

'I can't believe nobody has stepped in to do anything about it because its clearly a health hazard. She clearly needed help with it, it just got out of control.

'Whoever takes it on has got the ultimate gardening job on their hands and who knows what damage has been done to the roof.'

Agent Bond Wolfe in Birmingham is advertising the property, which will be auctioned on February 8, on Rightmove.

A brief outline describes it as 'an end terraced property standing back from the road behind a foregarden.'

Are YOU affected by this? Email alesia.fiddler@mailonline.co.uk