These pictures show the inside of an exclusive £1,600-an-hour VIP suite where Prince Harry stayed at Heathrow before flying back to California after visiting King Charles.

The Duke of Sussex flew 5,000 miles to be by his father's side following his cancer diagnosis - with the pair having a brief 45-minute meeting at Clarence House.

The Windsor Suite is the most exclusive lounge at Heathrow, and is regularly used by other members of the Royal Family including the Prince and Princess of Wales.

It has also been used by high-profile figures including the Pope and former Prime Minister Boris Johnson.

Guests are greeted by liveried doormen before being escorted to one of eight private lounges, where they are tended to by a private butler - part of a 96-strong team of staff.

The Windsor Suite is the most exclusive lounge at Heathrow, and is regularly used by other members of the Royal Family including the Prince and Princess of Wales

Prince Harry being greeted by a doorman at the Windsor Lounge in Heathrow yesterday

Pictures of the private lounges show large sofas, polished floors and walls decorated with artwork

They can then browse from a food menu from Michelin-starred chef Jason Atherton, and enjoy the use of a personal shopper in the main Terminal 5 building.

Pictures of the private lounges show large sofas, polished floors and walls decorated with artwork - including an Andy Warhol-inspired portrait of the Queen.

EXCLUSIVE READ MORE - Meghan Markle beams as she drives near her $14m Montecito home Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/news/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Given its high-profile guests the emphasis is very much on privacy and security, with bombproof glass and netting to hide from the paparazzi.

And forget having to queue for security - all checks are made in the suite itself, before guests are driven directly to their aircraft.

The Duke, 39, arrived at Heathrow just before 2pm and arrived back in LA on Wednesday evening.

Meghan, Archie and Lilibet stayed at home.

Harry and Charles had a 'brief meeting' before the King and Camilla were driven to Buckingham Palace where a helicopter was waiting to take them back to Sandringham.

Notably absent from the reunion was his brother Prince William, with no signs the tensions between the two have eased since Harry and Meghan decided to step back from senior royal duties in 2020.

'William has shown today that he has disowned Harry, he doesn't want to know him, and he probably doesn't even like him anymore. Harry is just not part of his life,' royal expert Jennie Bond told DailyMail.com.

An Andy Warhol-inspired portrait of the Queen that appears in the lounge

Guests can then browse from a food menu from Michelin-starred chef Jason Atherton

Some of the delicious food on offer to high-paying guests

'That rift is so deep now, and that has been shown by Harry being here and them not meeting, so deep that I really do wonder if it can ever, ever be mended.'

Expert Richard Fitzwilliams suggested the fact that Prince Harry made the trip at all shows hope for reconciliation.

He told MailOnline: 'The whole situation has changed with cancer. The fact the King has been diagnosed with something that millions know is life threatening has changed the whole relationship between the Royal Family and the Sussexes.

'The only way for a family to fight cancer is to come together.

'A lot has been made of the length of Harry's visit and how quickly he left but that isn't the point. The point is that Harry came – and Charles shared the diagnosis with him. What he wanted was to express support, it's a completely new situation.

The meeting between Harry and Charles was their first formal meeting in person since the late Queen Elizabeth II's funeral in September 2022. The prince did attend Charles's coronation at Westminster Abbey in May last year but was not seen interacting with the newly crowned King and Queen.

Buckingham Palace announced the King was undergoing treatment for unspecified cancer on Monday.

Doctors discovered the cancer whilst treating the monarch for an enlarged prostate just over a week prior, according to the Palace.

He returned to his Sandringham estate to recuperate following treatment, arriving via the royal helicopter at around 4.20pm.

It is thought that Harry stayed in a luxury hotel while in the UK, having technically been made homeless since his eviction from Frogmore Cottage last year.