Anya Taylor-Joy turned heads as she attended the world premiere of Dune: Part Two in Leicester Square, London on Thursday.

The actress, 27, cut an angelic appearance as she donned an elegant all white number for the evening, after it was confirmed she is starring in the hotly-anticipated sequel.

The star covered herself in a sheer white veil which encompassed her whole head, her blonde locks peaking out the front.

Underneath the veil, Anya opted for stunning white pleated dress which featured a daring plunging top half as she opted to go braless for the event.

Completing the look with some white strappy heels, the star added a pop of colour with a bold red lip colour to contrast the look.

Anya Taylor-Joy, 27, is CONFIRMED to be starring in Dune: Part Two as she cut an elegant figure in sheer white veiled dress for the premiere in Leicester Square, London on Thursday

The actress put on an angelic appearance as she donned an elegant all white number for the evening

In recent days rumours have been circling as to whether Anya had a role in the Dune follow up after fans noticed that Letterboxd featured Dune: Part Two among the list of films starring Taylor-Joy.

The credit has since been removed, but screenshots continued to circulate.

And on Thursday Variety confirmed that the star does in fact make an appearance in the sci-fi epic as she plays a major character from the franchise.

Anya joined fellow cast mates Florence Pugh, Timothee Chalamet and Rebecca Ferguson for the premiere.

Florence looked nothing short of sensational as turned heads in a dark brown shimmering gown that featured a plunging neckline and matching hood.

The backless garment also featured a shimmering detail and a flowing train while Florence added height to her frame with a pair of heels.

Wearing her blonde locks in a cropped style, the Don't Worry Darling star completed her look with a pair of silver drop earrings.

Florence, who plays Princess Irulan in the sci-fi epic, was joined on the red carpet by her grandmother who she affectionately calls 'Granzo Pat'.

Underneath the veil, Anya opted for stunning white pleated dress which featured a daring plunging top half as she opted to go braless for the event

The star covered herself in a sheer white veil which encompasses her whole head, her blonde locks peaking out the front

From behind Anya looked as though she was wearing a large white cloak as the scarf flowed into a train

Anya beamed in snaps after he surprise appearance confirmed she too stars in the film

Florence Pugh was joined on the red carpet by her grandmother who she affectionately calls 'Granzo Pat'

Pat was dressed in a white shirt and matching trousers along with a cream coat with a black ring print.

Rebecca Ferguson cut a glamorous figure in a black sleeveless dress with a silver print running along the centre.

The garment also featured a matching cape while Rebecca styled her brunette tresses into a sleek updo.

The actress, 40, who plays Lady Jessica in the blockbuster, completed her look for the evening with a light palette of makeup.

Timothee Chalamet caught the eye with his look, arriving to the event in a pair of silver patterned trousers.

The actor, 28, who once again takes on the lead role of Paul Atreides, paired it with a black loose-fitting tip and matching shoes along with a pair of sunglasses.