EXCLUSIVE

Lisa Wilkinson's agent sent Channel Ten a searing email demanding the TV host be given a role interviewing 'world leaders and A-list celebrities like Michelle Obama' on a new Network 10 series to 'soften the blow' of her being dropped from The Project.

Wilkinson stepped down from her starring role on the program in November 2022 after her Logie Awards speech for her coverage of Brittany Higgins' Parliament House rape allegations derailed Bruce Lehrmann's trial.

The emails were a part of documents released by the Federal Court this week amid Wilkinson's civil case against Network Ten over a $700,000 bill she racked up after hiring her own defence barrister for Mr Lehrmann's defamation case.

In court, it was revealed Wilkinson was not solely responsible for the Logies speech and it had been approved at the highest levels within the network.

Now, emails between Wilkinson's agent Nick Fordham and Bev McGarvey - the CEO of Ten's parent company Paramount - reveal the heated behind-the-scenes discussions that took place in the days leading up to the journalist's on-air resignation.

The tense exchange began when Ms McGarvey sent Mr Fordham an email claiming the decision to dump Wilkinson was made as The Project moved to position the show towards a younger audience with a 'refreshed talent line-up'.

Pictured: Lisa Wilkinson with her agent Nick Fordham

Pictured: Bev McGarvey - the CEO of Ten's parent company Paramount

Ms Garvey said the network was interested in discussing 'alternative opportunities' that would be more consistent with Wilkinson's 'personal brand'.

She also suggested Wilkinson could make three 'premium event interviews' per year to be rolled out as 'either an event series' or to coincide with special events as she served out the remainder of her contract.

But Mr Fordham was unimpressed with the offer and scathing of how Wilkinson had been treated by the network, describing its decision to make her step down as 'disappointing'.

He said the fallout from her Logies speech had been 'distressing' for Wilkinson and it was 'extraordinarily and deeply unfair' that the whole saga began because of the 'sheer excellence of her ground-breaking interview with Ms Higgins'.

'Lisa has felt all but abandoned on multiple occasions when, as you know, she was simply performing her employment duties to The Project and Network Ten - always to the highest professional standard,' Mr Fordham's email read.

'As you have acknowledged, everything Lisa has done, at every stage, was signed off and encouraged by The Project, Network Ten and Network Ten's legal team.'

Mr Fordham acknowledged Network Ten and Ms McGarvey had been supportive internally for Wilkinson but claimed they had 'done little' to publicly rectify her reputation, instead leaving her to 'wear it all'.

Lisa Wilkinson is pictured outside court this week with her legal counsel, top defamation barrister, Sue Chrysanthou SC

Despite being told by Network Ten that the situation was being managed by a 'crisis communications team', Mr Fordham said he nor Wilkinson were introduced to them or provided with any evidence of any action they had taken.

Mr Fordham added that he was not confident that Network Ten would be able to deliver on the interview series proposal as a previous promise to hire an executive producer to lead the Sunday Project had never eventuated.

Given that experience, he said he and Wilkinson would only agree to the series if it was clearly outlined from the start and firm commitments were made upfront.

He also insisted that any of the interviews that Wilkinson conducted as part of the series should also be aired on The Project and that she should be the show's presenter for major world events.

'Regarding the proposed talent for the interview series, the calibre of interviewees would need to be the likes of Michelle Obama, world leaders and A+ list celebrities,' he said.

'Lisa's contract is for work on The Project and to soften the very real blow this change will have on Lisa's standing and reputation in the industry, we insist that Lisa's future celebrity interviews, stories and coverage of international events appear on The Project.

'We would also require Lisa to be guaranteed major world-event postings for The Project covering things as next year's Coronation of King Charles.

'As you have mentioned, Lisa shines on the road and no one does it better. Similarly, Lisa currently has a number of incredibly strong feel-good stories in the works - all of which are exclusives - that she would love to see to fruition on The Project.'

Mr Fordham further noted the company would need to consider any travel fees to fly Wilkinson to jobs as she may not be based in Australia all the time after stepping down from The Project.

He also ordered that the proposed changes to her role would need to be addressed in a joint statement with Wilkinson issued by Network Ten.

Emails reveal Wilkinson's agent insisted she be given a role presenting at major world events for The Project as part of a contract variation when Network Ten scaled back her role

Lisa Wilkinson is pictured delivering her Logies speech in June 2022

In response, Ms McGarvey doubled down on claims Wilkinson was stood aside due to The Project taking a new direction, revealing she was just one of 'many changes' being made to the program.

She also said she requested an internal briefing about Mr Fordham's claims he and Wilkinson were not adequately consulted on efforts to 'limit media criticisms' but was informed that was not the case.

She said she was told Wilkinson, her husband Peter FitzSimons, Mr Fordham, and Wilkinson's lawyer were consulted and agreed on the approach 'every step of the way'.

However, Ms McGarvey admitted more could have been done to help salvage Wilkinson's reputation - citing 'legal constraints' as the reason the network did not brief media outlets that Wilkinson was not solely to blame for the speech mishap.

'We accept that more could be said or done in an ordinary context absent a serious criminal trial,' Ms McGarvey wrote.

'[But] overall, I am comfortable that we used our best efforts to support Lisa during this very difficult period.'

Ms McGarvey agreed that a joint statement would be issued but argued it was not necessary to 'pre-agree' to work opportunities for Wilkinson as she 'may wish to take an extended break after a difficult year'.

However, she said she accepted Wilkinson and the Network would need to agree about the nature, branding, and execution of each special - noting they envisioned Wilkinson's branding evolving 'like [advertising guru] Todd Sampson's'.

Mr Fordham followed up the next day by emailing a draft list of variations to be made to Wilkinson's employee contract, including details about the proposed interview series and Ten paying for any business class flights she needed for the program.

Lisa Wilkinson is pictured with Brittany Higgins in 2021, after The Project interview

In court this week, Wilkinson said she later contacted Ms McGarvey to follow up on plans to hold a meeting in late February 2023 about the series proposal but she never heard back.

On Wednesday, Wilkinson won her bid for Ten to cover her legal fees after successfully arguing that she hired her own legal counsel instead of using the Network's because Ten did not have her best interests in mind and would not properly defend her.

The full amount will be determined when the judge makes a decision on the defamation proceeding, which will likely be in March.

Mr Lehrmann sued Wilkinson and the network over her interview with Brittany Higgins on the Project in 2021, during which she publicly alleged for the first time that Mr Lehrmann raped her in Parliament House in 2019.

He was not named in the broadcast but claimed friends and former colleagues were able to identify him as the alleged rapist.

His criminal trial in October 2022 was vacated because a member of the jury brought banned research material into the court. The rape charge was then dropped due to concerns for Ms Higgins' mental health.

He has continually maintained his innocence.