When Beats released its collaboration with Kim Kardashian in 2022, they flew off the shelves in record time thanks to their stylish, skin-tone-matching aesthetic.

With a price tag in the triple figures, though, they’re a pretty pricey purchase.

That’s why the JLab Go Air Tones True Wireless Earbuds caught our attention.

Available for just £19.99, these cheap and cheerful in-ear headphones cost about £200 less than Beats but offer a very similar look and design. They come in seven different skin tone hues, too — as opposed to the Kim K Beats collab, which offers only three.

Shop JLab Go Air Tones

But how do they measure up?

To see if these affordable dupes are worth it, our editors tested them out. Keep reading our JLab headphone review to see what they thought.

Read more: The best headphones under £100

JLab headphone review: Our editors’ first-hand thoughts

Putting these headphones through their paces are three of our editors, who all admit to being attached to their premium headphones. So, they were eager to try out these affordable Beats dupes. Could they really live up to the hype?

Having swapped their usual headphones for the Go Air Tones, they paid particular attention to how well the skin tone matched theirs, how comfortable they were to wear and, of course, how well they performed. Here’s what each of them thought.

How close was the shade matching?

‘I was really pleased with the close colour match of the brown tones. I don't usually find anything that matches my skin tone, so receiving a case with brown buds (shade “7572 W”) was a pretty cool first experience.’

Photo: Lauren Pascal

How comfortable are they to wear?

‘These earbuds have a great fit. They're sleek and super comfortable, and they come with three tip sizes so you can adjust your buds for the perfect fit. In my experience, comfortability is typically where budget-friendly headphones fall short, but for me, they really excel here.’

How do they perform?

‘Since the buds are on the cheaper side, I wasn't expecting amazing and superb levels of audio, but I was pleasantly surprised. Even though the sound quality isn't as sharp as my AirPod Pros, it is relatively loud and clear, so I definitely would use these to listen to music on a regular basis.’

How close was the shade matching?

‘When I first checked out JLab’s earbuds online and browsed the shades available, I was initially impressed with the range of seven different hues. They already had the upper hand over Kim K’s Beats which are only stocked in three different tones — essentially a light, medium and dark.'

'I opted for the “728 N” colourway as I thought it would most complement my warm skin tone. And honestly — it’s a near-perfect match. The neutral earbuds look great when worn out and about and go well with any look or accessory! The colour on them is a tad brighter than my skin tone but this isn’t a dealbreaker in the slightest.’

Photo: Ava Patel

How comfortable are they to wear?

‘These are actually the first pair of in-ear earbuds I’ve owned that have generally pleased me when it comes to fit. They slot into the ear easily and feel comfortable — even when worn for long periods of time. When walking the fit feels nice and secure, and I don’t worry about losing an earbud when I’m running to catch the bus.’

How do they perform?

‘Unfortunately, the only major con of the Go Air Tones was their sound quality. My go-to headphones are the Bose QuietComfort 35 — a premium pair of noise-cancelling, wireless over-ear headphones. And — as expected given the major difference in price point — the JLab earbuds couldn’t compare to the sound quality I’m used to with the Bose set.'

‘The sound from the JLab pair was thin and slightly tinny. Music didn’t feel as well-rounded or as all-encompassing as it does when I listen to my favourite tunes on my Bose headphones.'

‘However, I tend not to use my over-ear headphones when out and about or taking public transport as I don’t feel completely safe with how well they block out external noises. So I do actually find JLab’s headphones a good option to grab when heading out somewhere. They’re also smaller and easier to fit into my bag compared to the Bose device.’

How close was the shade matching?

‘I chose shade “474 C” — light with a cool undertone — and was initially a little hesitant as I have a more neutral skin tone but felt shade “155 N” would be too light. I’m glad I went for this one as this shade is a pretty close match for me, although a little bit brighter than my skin.'

'I love how they blend in when I’m wearing them and that they aren’t too over the top, which is something I dislike about a lot of higher-end headphones. I think these are much more stylish.’

Photo: Christina Constantinou

How comfortable are they to wear?

‘I usually struggle with in-ear earbuds as I generally find they don’t fit properly in my ears, but these ones come with three different sizes of gel tips which made me pretty optimistic. I opted for the smallest set to try and found them to be surprisingly comfortable and secure.'

'However, I don’t think they’re as comfortable to wear as my AirPods. The JLab earbuds are round and a bit bulkier compared to AirPods, which feature a flatter in-ear design and tend to fit my ear best. But if you’re someone that struggles with the shape of the original AirPods, these may be perfect for you.’

How do they perform?

‘I’ve tried a lot of cheaper headphones in my time (JVC Gumys were my go-to as a teenager), so I know how varied the quality can be when you’re opting for budget earbuds. These ones definitely outperform a lot of other cheap headphones I’ve tried in terms of sound quality and offer pretty good audio clarity.

'I don’t think they provide the same sound quality as more expensive headphones such as AirPods or Samsung Galaxy Buds, though. The JLabs also don’t feature any level of noise cancellation and produce sound that feels a bit flat, even tinny at times, which may be a dealbreaker for some. But, in my opinion, for the price, they offer a decent experience.’

JLab headphone review: Would our editors recommend them?

Overall, the JLab Go Air Tones True Wireless Earbuds were well received by our team of testers.

They scored well in skin tone match with each of our editors commenting on the solid range of colours available and they also scored well with ear fit and comfortability. However, it was the quality of sound that was less impressive to our team who commented that these headphones produced a thin, sometimes tinny sound.

Photo: JLab

So, do our editors recommend them? Here’s what they had to say.

Lauren says: ‘As someone who can’t go five minutes without listening to music and has used AirPods for the better part of a year, I was super keen to test these affordable, wireless headphones — and I was quite impressed. If you’re looking for earphones that give that extra level of personalisation, this skin-toned gadget may just be a good match.

Ava says: ‘You get what you pay for in terms of sound quality with JLab’s Go Air Tones. The cool design and comfortable fit made up for the poorer quality in my opinion. But not so much so that I would use the headphones one hundred per cent of the time over my current pair.’

Christina says: ‘I think the JLab Go Air Tones are a great budget option. I don’t think I would reach for them over my more expensive pair due to the sound quality, but they’re definitely super stylish and a good, more inclusive dupe for the Kim K Beats. And for £19.99, you can’t really go wrong!’

Buy the JLab Go Air Tones here

Ultimately, if you’re after a super affordable pair of headphones that look sleek and you aren’t too fussed about sound quality, the JLab Go Air Tones get our recommendation. But if you’re hoping the JLabs will be a one-for-one swap with the Kim K Beats at a fraction of the price, that just isn’t the case.

Prices updated on 02/02/2023. We are not responsible for any changes to the prices mentioned above.