Tom Sandoval and his new girlfriend Victoria Lee Robinson celebrated their first Valentine's Day together as a couple.

The couple looked loved-up as they enjoyed a dinner date at Catch Steak LA in West Hollywood on Wednesday.

Tom, 40, looked smart in a black blazer, matching trousers, lace top and glossy red shoes while his love, 31, donned a slick jacket over a metallic mini dress.

She displayed her legs in knee-high black boots.

The couple tenderly posed outside the eatery and shared a smile as they drove off together.

Tom Sandoval and his new girlfriend Victoria Lee Robinson celebrated their first Valentine's Day together as a couple

Tom posted several sweet snaps for Victoria on his Instagram.

He re-posted a snap Victoria first shared of them snuggling a cuddle on a boat, as Tom kissed her cheek.

In a second post, he shared a snap of a card he had given Victoria, asking if she would be his Valentine.

'Dear Victoria, quick question... will you be my Valentine? Check one box please. Love Tom,' the card read. It contained a 'yes' and 'no' box - and Victoria checked 'yes.'

The special occasion marked Sandoval's first Valentine's Day since becoming embroiled in Scandoval, the name given to the controversy he landed in last year after he cheated on Ariana Madix with Rachel Leviss.

Both Tom and Ariana have moved on romantically since their split - Tom with Victoria and Ariana with her fitness coach boyfriend Daniel Wai.

Sandoval went public with Victoria earlier this month, sharing a clip of him partying with the model - and they couldn't keep their hands off each other.

Victoria was once romantically linked to Leonardo DiCaprio.

The duo grinned as they drove off together

Sandoval shared several loved-up snaps with Victoria as he marked Valentine's Day

He posted this card he gave Robinson, asking if she wanted to be his Valentine

The romantic day marks the first Valentine's Day Tom has celebrated since splitting from Ariana Madix; pictured 2023

Shortly after, sources close to the reality TV personality confirmed to TMZ that the pair have been officially dating for about a month.

Insiders told the outlet that their romance is not 'super serious' yet and they are just 'enjoying their time together'.

Sandoval is still dealing with the fallout from the affair on the latest season of Vanderpump Rules.

The reality star is also still living under the same roof as his ex - and the home they currently share has remained a bone of contention between them.

In early January, Madix filed a lawsuit, suing Sandoval over their house, which they bought together in 2019.

According to the documents, obtained by DailyMail.com last month, the former couple do not see eye-to-eye on how they are to split up the property.

On a recent episode of Nick Viall's The Viall Files podcast, he called her 'petty' for not accepting his seemingly reasonable offer of $3.1 million to buy their shared home.