A raging Kyle Walker threatened to 'knock out' Neal Maupay after the Brentford striker 'whispered taunts about his children', a lip reader revealed today.

The Manchester City star - who was mocked by the home fans following the news he had fathered a second child with Lauryn Goodman - erupted at the 81st minute of last night's game at the Gtech Community Stadium.

Walker was seen venting his frustrations to referee Jarred Gillett and fourth official Stuart Attwell, claiming to the pair that Maupay had made comments about his children.

Expert witness and forensic lip reader Jeremy Freeman has exclusively told Mail Sport what was said during the exchange.

He said Walker approached the fourth official and shouted: 'I'm gonna knock him [Maupay] out', to which Atwell replied: 'Shush'. However, Walker refused to back down and went on to say: 'Wait there' – pointing to the tunnel - before walking back over to Gillet.

Kyle Walker threatened to 'knock out' Neal Maupay after claiming the Brentford striker was taunting him about his children, an expert lip reader has revealed

Walker - who was taunted by the Brentford fans following the news he had fathered a second child with Lauryn Goodman - erupted in the 81st minute of City's 3-1 win

Walker and Maupay were embroiled in a heated spat during Manchester City's 3-1 victory over Brentford at the Gtech Community Stadium

The England international was seen venting his frustrations to Gillet and the fourth official Stuart Attwell, claiming Maupay had made comments about his children

Your browser does not support iframes.

The England international continued his rant, saying: 'Ref he spoke about my kids, he spoke about my kids, not once, but twice.'

Maupay interjected by saying: 'I didn't, it's OK'.

Gillet tried to defuse the situation by saying: 'Let's deal with it at the end' before turning to Maupay and adding: 'Now, now, just calm down, listen to me... think about it, think about it.'

Maupay responded to Attwell by saying: 'That's a lie, that's not fair, I promise you now.'

The Manchester City captain split with his wife Annie Kilner, 30, last month after he was named as the father of Goodman's five-month old daughter.

Walker had already fathered a son, three year-old Kairo, with Lauryn following an earlier separation from Kilner in 2020.

In a rare interview about his personal life, the love cheat appeared close to tears as he reflected on moving away from their family home in Cheshire and spending time away from his three children with Annie, who is currently pregnant with their fourth.

Walker admitted he wanted to 'curl up in a ball' after his relationship with Lauryn came to light in January.

In 2020, Lauryn confirmed the father of her oldest child, son Kairo, was Walker and the footballer broke the news to his devastated wife hours before it went public.

The Manchester City captain split with his wife Annie Kilner (left) last month after he was named as the father of Goodman's (right) five-month old daughter

Kyle secretly married his childhood sweetheart Kilner in 2022 and currently share three kids

He moved out of the family home to rental accommodation in nearby Hale, Cheshire before Annie agreed to take him back, with Walker agreeing to sever all contact with Lauryn beyond his ongoing financial commitments.

In August 2022, Lauryn revealed she was planning to relocate closer to Walker with son Kairo.

Walker explained how he met her at a solicitors' office to try to stop the move, which was when he met his son for the first time and the couple resumed contact.

In early October 2022, the footballer travelled to London for groin surgery and met Lauryn. He confirmed the pair ended up sleeping together.

Weeks later, Lauryn broke the news she was pregnant again.

She messaged Annie on December 27, 2023 revealing the truth about their relationship and the parentage of her second child.

Walker recently revealed he had considered transfer to Germany to play for Bayern Munich.

However, he decided to weather the storm, with the MailOnline previously revealing how the City star wants to continue to be present for Kilner and his children.

Speaking to The Sun, Walker said: 'I tried to escape. Did I want to leave City? No, of course I didn't. We're the best team in the world at the minute. But it was a chance to get away from England and the media I was going to get.

'I was aware the clock was ticking. I came very close to moving. We were having conversations. I was going to a great club, a massive club. But in the end I couldn't go.

'If I'm in Germany and this happens, Annie leaves and I'm now in Germany on my own. My kids wouldn't be around the corner where I can see them. There's pain and emotion at the moment but I can go to the house, take the kids to school, and my little lad to football.'

Walker is pictured with his young son and wife Annie at the World Cup in 2022

The footballer is a father to three children with Annie (pictured), who is currently pregnant with their fourth

Lauryn (pictured) revealed in an exclusive interview with Mail+ that she 'ended it with Kyle' as she couldn't deal with the 'toxicity any more'

The row has also embroiled relatives of the love triangle, with Annie's sister Sian taking to social media to accuse Lauryn of using videos of her children to 'torment' her pregnant sibling.

In her latest statement, Sian claimed Lauryn is using the children to get to Annie and revealed they have been 'inundated' by people sending them Lauryn's videos.

She said: 'Once again we have been inundated with people sending content you've uploaded in an attempt to torment my pregnant sister and her family.

'The selected video clip you shared of your little 'miracle boy' (quote taken from your interview on the Victoria Derbyshire show) naming his half brothers is obviously meant to antagonise Annie.

'However, it only shows how low you will stoop to get attention. Notably, he misses out the name of his full sibling, his sister but presumably that is because you are saving it for another 'exclusive'?

'Did you conveniently forget that you were given the chance for him to meet these half brothers but you refused?

'This isn't about 'showing how he is 'fluent in Spanish'. This isn't in the best interests of any of the children. This is, and has always been, about you.

'I have already been forced to publicly ask you to leave my sister and now I'm having to do the same for my nephews!! We aren't taking the online taunts any longer.

'You asked 'When will this end' in your interview that came out over the weekend. We have been wondering the same?

Sian was referencing Lauryn's bombshell interview, where she offered her side of the Kyle Walker affair.

The full exclusive interview was published on Mail+ , Mail Online's new subscription service.

Lauryn claimed both she and Annie are victims of his 'ego' and 'lies', as she claimed she had 'barely slept for days' following Kyle's interview this week, in which he referred to their relationship as a 'mistake'.

She revealed: 'Nobody understands what it is like when a young boy points to a photo of his dad and just wants to see him. It breaks my heart.

'It was me who ended it with Kyle. If I'd wanted to, I could have continued to have a secret family together.

'But I couldn't deal with the toxicity any more, and I realised it wasn't good for my children.'

Annie's sister Sian again hit out at Lauryn Goodman amid her ongoing feud on her Instagram Stories on Monday night

The influencer broke down in tears and said: 'When will this end? I need this to end.'

Asked about Sian's intervention, a spokesperson for Lauryn said: 'Lauryn was not aware of this Instagram post, as she does not know Sian Kilner.

'While she doesn't see any need to discuss the thoughts of someone who is not involved in her life, or her children's lives, she is happy to clarify that she has never been given the opportunity for Kairo or his sister to meet their half siblings.

'She would always put the best interests of the children first and would always welcome an opportunity for families to connect. Kyle has only shown Kairo pictures of his half brothers, and it hasn't been mentioned since.

'Lauryn's own Instagram profile includes images of her own children, who she is enormously proud of, and their life together as a family. There is no intention to engage in any sort of tit for tat dispute.'

It was reported earlier this week Walker has hired new lawyers to put a stop to the 'mudslinging' over his relationship with Lauryn .

The footballer is said to have brought in a team of 'dispute resolution' lawyers to try and bring an end to the 'tsunami of false allegations'.

According to the Mirror, Walker has sought the help of Payne Hicks Beach, a firm based in London, in the hopes of drawing a line in the sand to protect his children.

A source close to the footballer told the publication that the footballer hopes they can 'all move on like adults rather than endless mudslinging'.

In 2020, Lauryn (pictured) confirmed the father of her oldest child, son Kairo, was Walker

The insider said: 'Kyle has pointedly not spoken about the children as he wants to keep their names out of everything.

'But Lauryn seems determined to play that card, which is one of the reasons why lawyers have been instructed to try and bring an end to these games.'

A spokeswoman said: 'Kyle and Annie are disappointed that Lauryn continues to seek publicity and financial gain by promoting false, defamatory and intrusive media stories about them and their children.

'Apart from being factually inaccurate, these stories take no account of the best interests of the children. The matter is with their lawyers.'

Full timeline of Kyle Walker and Annie Kilner drama after shocking revelation he fathered a second child with Lauryn Goodman

By Amelia Wynne

The last month has seen Kyle Walker 's relationship with Annie Kilner dramatically collapse - with more twists and turns being revealed with every passing day.

His two-year marriage to Annie, who he met as a teenager, is in tatters after his infidelities were brought to light.

The Manchester City and England full-back was named as the father of influencer Lauryn Goodman 's five-month old daughter.

The footballer, 33, had already fathered a son, three year-old Kairo, with Goodman following an earlier separation from Annie, 30, in 2020.

He has since issued a grovelling apology and pleaded for forgiveness while both sides' families have come out all guns blazing to support their loved ones.

Annie shares three children with Kyle and is heavily pregnant with her fourth.

Here, MailOnline gives a complete timeline of the marriage breakdown and everything that has happened since:

Early years - Kyle and Annie are childhood sweethearts

Kyle and Annie first met in their hometown of Sheffield when she was 15 and he was 17.

She has previously described their early bond as 'love at first sight'.

Kyle and Annie have three sons together, Roman, 11, Riaan, seven, and Reign, five.

The brunette beauty does not show their faces on social media and they are kept out of the spotlight.

Annie has previously spoken of her desire to have a daughter someday and admitted to OK! magazine: 'I really want a little girl. I love my boys, but I'd really like a daughter as I'm outnumbered in this house.'

Kyle and Annie first met in their hometown of Sheffield when she was 15 and he was 17. She has previously described their early bond as 'love at first sight'

2016: First claims of Kyle's infidelity emerge

During Euro 2016, Walker was caught messaging Playboy model Carla Howe, while he was in France with the England team.

The text message exchange is said to have taken place before England's 1-1 draw with Russia in their opening group match, while he was at the team hotel in Chantilly.

The footballer first met the model at a party, where they reportedly exchanged numbers.

However, when she found out he had a partner and a child, a source told the newspaper that she stopped messaging him.

The friend said: 'She found out Kyle has a girlfriend so now ignores his messages as she doesn't want it to go any further with him.'

During Euro 2016, Walker was caught messaging Playboy model Carla Howe, while he was in France with the England team

April 2019 - Kyle and Annie split amid further infidelity claims

Annie and Kyle have had a complicated past and in 2019 split after he was caught in a cheating scandal.

At the time he was dumped by the ex-glamour model after an alleged string of romps with reality TV star Laura Brown.

A friend of the Ex On The Beach star claimed that Brown confessed to Kilner about the supposed sexual encounters which happened in the back of Walker's £200,000 Bentley Bentayga.

Kilner reportedly kicked Walker out of their £3.5million mansion following the scandal before they later got back together.

An insider told the Sun that after Brown found out Walker had a girlfriend she wrote to her to say: 'He's a rat, he was always funny and a nice guy to me but when I found out he was actually with you and kids I'm not that girl to keep seeing him I know you've been together long time but it's no excuse for him'.

She told a friend at the time: 'I felt exploited. Because he's a rich footballer he felt that he could treat me how he wanted.'

Annie and Kyle have had a complicated past and in 2019 split after he was caught in a cheating scandal

April 2020: Claims of Kyle hosting pandemic sex party

During the pandemic Kyle allegedly hosted a sex party with two escorts.

The footballer and a friend, paid £2,200 for Louise McNamara, 21, and a 24-year-old Brazilian call girl to visit his Cheshire home.

The escorts left on the same day Sheffield-born Walker told fans to stay indoors.

Single mother-of-one Louise said she did not recognise the footballer at first and was sent a message from her boss saying they had a 'high profile client'.

She says she left the flat with the other woman at around 2am.

'Kyle really should know better,' Louise told The Sun.

'On the one hand he's inviting strangers round to his house for sex and the next day he's lecturing everyone on the need to stay safe.'

Walker apologised for the incident.

He said: 'I want to take this opportunity to issue a public apology for the choices I made last week.

'I understand that my position as a professional footballer brings the responsibility of being a role model.

'As such, I want to apologise to my family, friends, football club, supporters and the public for letting them down.'

2020 - Lauryn gives birth to son Kairo with Kyle

Kyle had a son, Kairo, now three, with social media star Lauryn during a temporary split from Annie in February 2020 when they had a short dalliance

Kyle had a son, Kairo, now three, with social media star Lauryn during a temporary split from Annie in February 2020 when they had a short dalliance.

Despite being married to Annie, Walker reportedly bought Lauryn a £2.5million seaside mansion in Sussex last year.

She previously accused Annie of treating her boy like an 'outcast' and acting like he's a 'dirty secret' after she commented on Kyle's 'three sons' instead of four.

The spat kicked off following Manchester City's recent treble victory, with Lauryn sharing a snap of Kairo wearing his father's team's kit.

She wrote on Instagram: '2023 what a special year, history made. I understand we have skipped a few chapters here…@kairowalker always supporting.'

However, Annie seemingly hit back at Lauryn's post with a snap of her own, which showed her sons Riaan, Roman and Reign with their dad on the pitch, captioning the snap: '3 is the magic number.'

She added: 'Winning the champions league with Your daddy. All these memories you get to have with your daddy. Nothing and no one will ever take that from you. We've got you 3.'

Furious at the post, Lauryn then lashed out at Annie, branding her a 'wicked stepmother' who is trying to 'eradicate' her son's 'existence'.

November 2021 - Walker and Kilner marry in secret

After the news of Lauryn's first child Annie and Kyle got back together and married in secret in November 2021.

It was reported at the time that it was a small ceremony.

In June 2020, it was reported that Kyle popped the question to Annie with a floral proposal at her home

March 2023 - Lauryn announces second pregnancy

Lauryn revealed she was expecting her second child in March last year

Lauryn revealed she was expecting her second child in March last year.

Sharing a photo of herself and son Kairo on Instagram, Lauryn's baby bump could be seen as she posed in a bikini during a beach break.

'FYI…It's a BABY! Family completed 2023,' she captioned the post.

Spring 2023 - Kyle allegedly flashes and kisses woman

There was trouble last spring when Man City star Kyle allegedly flashed and kissed another woman in a Vodka Revolution bar.

He was seen apparently pulling down his trousers in the venue, believed to be in Wilmslow, Cheshire, during 90 minutes of alleged lewd behaviour.

Not long afterwards Annie shared an Instagram post with her thousands of followers which read: 'I think it's important to remember that no matter how good you are to people, it won't make them good to you.'

In March CCTV footage showed Kyle pulled down his trousers to flash at a bar, fondled a blonde woman's breasts and kissed her in shameful moments caught on video.

The Manchester City defender appeared to grind behind the woman, who was not his wife Annie. Punters on a night out were reportedly shocked by the horrific behaviour which went on for around 90 minutes until 7pm.

In response, one of the two women in his group screamed and pointed as Walker laughed with a friend.

The star then appeared to expose himself again after just a few minutes - and only a few feet away from two other women sitting in a booth at the bar, according to The Sun's report.

He is then said to have walked over to shake their hands and say hello. More footage from the night seems to show him 'pawing' at one of his female friends' breasts and kissing her.

Walker is a father to three children with Kilner (pictured), who is currently pregnant with their fourth

August 2023 - Lauryn gives birth to a daughter with 'another footballer'

In August 2023, Lauryn gave birth to a daughter with 'another footballer' and did not publicly disclose her second child's name.

She hinting the initials were KW on Instagram.

Then after Annie said her and Kyle had split Kyle confirmed he was the father of Lauryn's second child.

While her footballer husband was away with his club, Annie would receive a message from Lauryn in which his mistress revealed the truth about their relationship and the parentage of her second child.

Speaking to the Sun, Lauryn claimed that she concluded the father of her children was lying to both the women in his life in December and despite his attempts to patch things up by trying to FaceTime her on Christmas Day she said: 'No, this is done, this is too toxic'.

Accusing the footballer of 'gaslighting' her, Lauryn, who lives in Brighton, said she decided to speak to Annie on the day after Boxing Day, while Kyle was away with the team playing Everton in the Premier League.

She claims that Annie, who lives in the couple's £2.5million mansion, told her she suspected Lauryn's daughter was Kyle's and that her friends had told her she was 'crazy'.

Lauryn said: 'Kyle had denied she was his daughter many, many times. I don't think Annie wanted to believe it was true, which is understandable.

'She kept asking for proof so I showed her the DNA test but even then she doubted it was real until I pointed out my daughter's name on the paperwork.

'Annie and I later FaceTimed and my daughter was there.'

The model said that Annie 'kept cool and calm' when she was handed the proof as she had 'suspected' that Kyle was the father to Lauryn's second child.

January 2024: Annie announces split from Kyle after two years of marriage

In the second week of January Annie announced her separation from footballer husband Kyle after two years of marriage

In the second week of January Annie announced her separation from footballer husband Kyle after two years of marriage.

The brunette exchanged vows with Manchester City and England right-back Walker in December 2021 following a 12-year relationship, during which they welcomed three children.

But in an Instagram post Kilner confirmed she has dumped her childhood sweetheart - an 81 cap England international.

Walker, who is expected to play a pivotal role for Gareth Southgate's team at the European Championships in June, is also believed to have moved out of their £2.4million mansion.

She wrote: 'Sadly, after many years of marriage and three wonderful children together, I have decided to take some time away from Kyle.

'I do not wish to comment on the position any further. For now, I ask that the privacy of myself and my 3 young children be respected during this difficult time.'

At the time it was claimed the couple had been having arguments about his involvement with Lauryn.

A source said at the time: 'Kyle and Annie have been arguing. She said she'd had enough because of all the ongoing stuff with Lauryn.

'There was another legal meeting involving her and Kyle this week. It's put a real strain on them.

'Annie has done nothing wrong apart from trust him. She wants to keep things together.'

January 2024: It is revealed that Kyle is the father of Lauryn's second child

A week after Annie and Kyle's split came to light Kyle was revealed as the father of Lauryn's second child

A week after Annie and Kyle's split came to light Kyle was revealed as the father of Lauryn's second child.

He had been rumoured to be the biological dad since the reality star, 32, gave birth to the tot last August, which she claimed to have welcomed with 'another footballer'.

After Lauryn had continued to drop not-so-subtle hints regarding her daughter's paternity.

However sources close to the couple at the time said Annie had known for some time the baby was Kyle's and it did not spark her decision to take a break from the marriage.

A friend said: 'Kyle and Annie have been on the rocks for some time.

'There are lots of historic issues between them, as well as his dalliances with Lauryn, that has led to the break up.

'They are both putting on a united front for the sake of the three children they share together, who are their main concern.

'The marriage isn't 100 per cent over, it could be rescued, but there needs to be lots of healing first.

'They need to take a break from the relationship to restock and reevaluate.'

The friend added: 'Kyle is no longer in contact with Lauryn.

'Her stirring behind the scenes have really affected Annie and had a detrimental impact on her health.'

January 2024: Kyle issues public apology to Annie and pleads for forgiveness

Last week Kyle broke down as he admitted to making 'idiot choices and idiot decisions' while fathering a secret child during his marriage to 'best friend' Annie

Last week Kyle broke down as he admitted to making 'idiot choices and idiot decisions' while fathering a secret child during his marriage to 'best friend' Annie.

In a rare interview about his personal life, Walker was close to tears as he reflected on moving away from their family home in Cheshire and spending enforced time away from his three children with Kilner, who is currently pregnant with their fourth.

He told The Sun: 'What I've done is horrible and I take full responsibility. I made idiot choices and idiot decisions. I can't begin to think or imagine what Annie is going through. I've tried to ask her but there's pain and hurt.

'The man that's meant to love, care and be there for her, did this.'

He admitted he wanted to 'curl up in a ball' after his relationship with Goodman came to light in January.

He added: 'When I met Annie at 17, I never envisaged my private life being like this. I never thought I would be a father of six.

'The only person to blame is me. I have roles and responsibilities that I'm aware of and I've made stupid choices. But I need to own up to my mistakes — I owe it to everyone.

'My actions have caused a lot of pain to a lot of people. I'm sorry because, as a family, this isn't meant to happen.'

'My little boy goes to sleep with me every night and to not have him... I'm used to being away for long periods of time with England,' he said, his voice breaking.

'We say goodnight on FaceTime. But to know that I'm not with him because of my mistake - mistake is probably the wrong word, my choices - that's what pains me.'

January 2024: Lauryn brands Kyle a pathological lair and narcissist

This week Lauryn broke her silence after Kyle insisted they didn't have a relationship and called fathering a second secret child with her an 'idiot decision'

This week Lauryn broke her silence after Kyle insisted they didn't have a relationship and called fathering a second secret child with her an 'idiot decision'.

In a rare interview about his personal life, Walker was close to tears at the weekend as he confessed his two-year marriage to Annie is in tatters after he was named as the father of Goodman's five-month old daughter.

While he insisted the affair was not a proper relationship, Goodman was quick to claim the footballer was lying, taking to Instagram on Monday to share a post detailing the definition of a 'pathological narcissist', who spends their life 'lying' and 'gaslighting' those around them.

Walker had claimed there was 'no relationship' between the pair, saying: 'to have a relationship with someone… would she even know how many sugars I have in my coffee, if I have sugars? She couldn't tell you'.

Yet the mother-of-two refuted this, sharing a 'there are receipts' meme while pointedly writing: 'Flat white no sugars please' in a nod to Walker's comments.

January 2024: Annie Kilner's sister launches attack on Lauryn

Also this week Annie's sister condemned Lauryn for her ongoing 'torment and cruelty' after Kyle was confirmed as the father of her baby daughter

Taking to Instagram on Monday evening, Kilner's sister Sian slammed Goodman for continuing to antagonise the mother-of-three despite being aware of her pregnancy

Also this week Annie's sister condemned Lauryn for her ongoing 'torment and cruelty' after Kyle was confirmed as the father of her baby daughter.

Taking to Instagram on Monday evening, Kilner's sister Sian slammed Goodman for continuing to antagonise the mother-of-three despite being aware of her pregnancy.

She wrote: '@lauryngoodman91 When does your torment end? My sister who is now 7 months pregnant, has faced your cruelty for almost 5 years now.

'What's your goal? To see how much stress you can put on a pregnant woman? To create a false victim narrative around what you did? You clearly lack empathy but this level of evil is out of control and harms everyone – especially the children.'

Rubbishing Goodman's claim that she and Walker enjoyed a loving relationship - an allegation the footballer denies - she added: 'Stop accusing others: your true self is revealed. The so-called 'loving relationship' is a facade.. It's not fooling anyone so why don't you just give us all a break and stop.

'Also, He has one sugar, Nestle Coffee Mate and semi-skimmed milk. But that's the coffee you get at home... Not the ones in hotels or Air B&BS.'

Sian also shared a photo of herself with Kilner on an overseas holiday, wit the accompanying caption: 'A queen doesn't let her crown slip.'

February 2024: Walker threatens to 'knock out' Neal Maupay

Walker threatened to 'knock out' Neal Maupay after claiming the Brentford striker was taunting him about his children, an expert lip reader has revealed.

Expert witness and forensic lip reader Jeremy Freeman exclusively told Mail Sport what was said between Walker, Maupay and referee Jarred Gillett on Monday.

Walker and Maupay were embroiled in a heated spat during Manchester City's 3-1 victory over Brentford at the Gtech Community Stadium.

Freeman has revealed exactly what was said between Walker, Maupay, Gillett and Attwell during the game on Monday evening.

The expert witness and forensic lip reader said Walker approached the 4th official and shouted: 'I'm gonna knock him [Maupay] out'.

Attwell replied: 'Shush'.

However, Walker refused to back down and went on to say: 'Wait there' – pointing to the tunnel - before walking back over to Gillet.

The England international continued his rant, saying: 'Ref he spoke about my kids, he spoke about my kids, not once, but twice.'

Maupay interjected by saying: 'I didn't, it's OK'.