Former Wallabies coach Eddie Jones has delivered one last stinging insult to Australian rugby, saying it has 'no hardness' and labels sections of the code's media 'idiots'.

Jones famously slammed reporters prior to flying to France for the World Cup, telling them to 'give yourselves uppercuts' and has now given them a second dose in Stan's new documentary series, The Wallabies.

'I thought it was ridiculous. And it shows the paucity of Australian Rugby journalism at the moment,' he says in the three-part series, covering the ill-fated campaign.

'Australian rugby is in a bad spot and you've got a couple of idiots parading as journalists asking questions about players that have been left out.

'We're about to go on a World Cup (tour) with a bunch of young players who deserve the opportunity. I thought it was completely out of context and completely inappropriate.'

Former Wallabies coach Eddie Jones is still making headlines after departing

Jones says in the Stan documentary 'The Wallabies' that Australian rugby lacks hardness

Elsewhere in the captivating documentary, Jones unleashes a stinging critique of Aussie rugby after the side's 40-6 loss to Wales in Lyon.

'That's the problem mate. We've got no hardness about us,' Jones tells veteran prop James Slipper.

'Like, you know, game hardness is different than any sort of hardness - when you just stick in the f---ing game and do it.

'Like, there's none of that in Australian rugby now. And that's where the big gap is, mate. Like you look at those Welsh players, mate. They play 30 games a year.

'They're hardened, tough players so they can just stick at it. They know they've got to do it. And we've just lost that in Australian rugby.'

Slipper listens on, but doesn't respond to his coach.

'We're not not tough, but we're not trained to be tough now and we're not used to playing tough,' Jones continues.

Jones says the Australian players were not hardened to play Test match rugby

'Like it's an exception to play tough now rather than the normal. It stands out like dogs' balls, mate. Because they are good players and they care a lot, the players, but they're just not hardened to play Test match rugby consistently.

'Set up for failure, mate.'

Stan's The Wallabies - Inside Rugby World Cup 2023 is available to watch in Australia from February 22.