Taylor Swift has sent local fans wild by declaring, 'Melbourne, you're the love of my life.'

The pop superstar made the comment during her third sold out concert as part of her Eras Tour at the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG) on Sunday night.

Swift, 34, told the crowd, 'Some stadium girl math for you … 96,000 people the first night, 96,000 people the second night. 96,000 people tonight.'

'Those are all the biggest shows I've ever played on a tour and you did it three times,' she added.

'The math is that it’s 288,000 people in three nights, Melbourne. You are the love of my life.'

Taylor Swift (pictured) has sent local fans wild by declaring, 'Melbourne, you're the love of my life'

The pop superstar made the comment during her third sold out concert as part of her Eras Tour at the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG) on Sunday night

Melbourne returned the love by giving Swift a minute-long ovation.

'That's unforgettable for me, I'll never forget it,' declared an emotional Swift.

It's not the first time this tour Swift has shown her love for Melbourne.

International Swifties vented on social media after Swift treated Melbourne fans to an extra special surprise song in the form of a mashup of her tracks Getaway Car, The Other Side of the Door and August.

'Those are all the biggest shows I've ever played on a tour and you did it three times,' she added

'The math is that it’s 288,000 people in three nights, Melbourne. You are the love of my life'

'WHAT POSSESSED HER TO DO THIS?' exclaimed one fan on Twitter.

'Does Taylor owe Australia money or something wtf is this,' vented another.

Another shared a meme of a stone-faced NFL player during a tickertape parade, along with the caption, 'the rest of the world watching melbourne getting getaway car x august x the other side of the door mashup'.

Melbourne returned the love by giving Swift a minute-long ovation. Pictured: fans on the night

International Swifties vented on social media after Swift treated Melbourne fans to an extra special surprise song

Fans at Taylor's first Melbourne Cricket Ground concert were also treated to a world-first announcement by the songstress that the special edition of The Tortured Poets Department would feature a new song called The Bolter.

The outrage comes after one diehard fan miraculously scored a ticket to Swift's Eras Tour concert after an act of goodwill from a punter who had to leave the concert early.

In a video shared on TikTok, one of the thousands of ticketless fans who waited outside the MCG managed to get into the concert thanks to the kind Swiftie.

The short clip shows stunned fans watching the concert goer send the ticket to the fan, before they hug and the woman runs into the venue.

According to the comments, the exchange happened towards the end of the three-hour concert during the final Midnights Era of the show.

In the background 'Vigilante S**t' can be heard playing.

Another shared a meme of a stone-faced NFL player during a tickertape parade

Fans at Taylor's first Melbourne Cricket Ground concert were also treated to a world-first announcement by the songstress that the special edition of The Tortured Poets Department would feature a new song called The Bolter

With three shows slated for Melbourne this weekend, thousands of fans who missed out on tickets gathered outside the MCG singing and dancing to Swift's hits.

The international trend has garnered the term 'Taylor-gating,' despite warnings from the MCG urging fans to only attend the venue if they have ticketholders.

Ahead of the concert on February 6, the venue said there would be 'no activations' in Yarra Park or live screening of the show, and reminded fans of the rules against drinking and setting up tents, marquees or BBQs.

Swift mania will then hit Sydney the weekend after, with the pop star set to perform at four shows from Friday, February 23 to Monday February 26.