A travel influencer revealed the ten most beautiful spots she has been to after exploring all 50 states and almost every national park.

Emily Hart, a travel blogger and social media influencer, unveiled her list of the ten most beautiful spots she has been to, which includes some of the least-visited parks in the country.

Unsurprisingly, iconic destinations like Yosemite National Park, Grand Teton, and California's Highway 1 top the list.

But Hart goes beyond the expected, highlighting a selection of hidden gems that provide breathtaking views of the landscape.

Emily Hart, a travel influencer revealed the ten most beautiful spots she has been to after exploring all 50 states and almost every national park

Unsurprisingly, iconic destinations like Yosemite National Park, Grand Teton, and California 's Highway 1 top the list

Hart goes beyond the expected, highlighting a selection of hidden gems that provide breathtaking views of the landscape

Glacier National Park

The national park known as 'the crown of the continent' in Montana has been a destination for enthusiasts of hiking, fishing, and camping.

For Hart, it holds a special place as she wrote, 'I've visited Glacier National Park several times, and each trip has brought tears to my eyes.'

She described the drive on the Going-to-the-Sun Road as 'a feast for the senses,' with Montana's Rocky Mountains embracing the picturesque Hidden Lake.

The park is a haven for wildlife observers, offering glimpses of mountain goats, grizzly bears, and bighorn sheep.

The Glacier National Park in Montana holds a special place for Hart as she wrote, 'I've visited Glacier National Park several times, and each trip has brought tears to my eyes'

California's Highway 1 stands out as the most breathtaking and visually stunning choice for travelers and road trip enthusiasts alike

On the route where the coastline dramatically meets the sea, road trip enthusiasts have the chance to savor panoramic views of beaches and cliffs in the Golden State.

California's Highway 1 stands out as the most breathtaking and visually stunning choice for travelers and road trip enthusiasts alike.

Hart wrote: 'Although there are many impressive drives, my trip along California's Highway 1 to Big Sur and San Simeon was the most scenic and jaw-droppingly beautiful I've encountered.'

The blogger highlighted Bixby Creek Bridge, emphasizing it as a perfect spot for a photo opportunity.

New England's autumn colors consistently captivate leaf peepers nationwide, including Hart, who singled out the White Mountains as a favorite fall destination

Hart recommends travelers hike the Artists Bluff Trail in Franconia Notch State Park in New Hampshire before strolling through Flume Gorge for even more impressive views

'The Northeast doesn't always get the praise that outdoor areas in the West might, but it has no shortage of remarkable landscapes,' she wrote

White Mountains

New England's autumn colors consistently captivate leaf peepers nationwide, including Hart, who singled out the White Mountains as a favorite fall destination.

'The Northeast doesn't always get the praise that outdoor areas in the West might, but it has no shortage of remarkable landscapes,' she wrote.

Hart recommends travelers hike the Artists Bluff Trail in Franconia Notch State Park in New Hampshire before strolling through Flume Gorge for even more impressive views.

The North Cascades National Park, a usually overlooked U.S. national park in Washington State, unexpectedly received high praise from the seasoned traveler

In addition to abundant wildlife sightings of grizzly bears and gray wolves, the park boasts 400 miles of trails, including the renowned steep Thunder Creek Trail

North Cascades National Park

The usually overlooked U.S. national park in Washington State unexpectedly received high praise from the seasoned traveler.

Hart described the park as 'a true hidden gem' and 'one of the most stunning places' she has ever visited.

She noted, 'Despite being just hours from Seattle, the lesser-known national park still flies somewhat under the radar despite its remarkable beauty.'

In addition to abundant wildlife sightings of grizzly bears and gray wolves, the park boasts 400 miles of trails, including the renowned steep Thunder Creek Trail.

The desert town of Sedona, Arizona, embraced by striking red-rock buttes, provides an unparalleled hiking and mountain biking experience

Sedona, Arizona, is hailed by Hart as 'a spiritual and adventure mecca' with its steep canyon walks, striking red rocks, and energy vortexes

Sedona, Arizona

The desert town, embraced by striking red-rock buttes, provides an unparalleled hiking and mountain biking experience.

Sedona, Arizona, is hailed by Hart as 'a spiritual and adventure mecca' with its steep canyon walks, striking red rocks, and energy vortexes.

She said: 'In my opinion, there's no place as peaceful and spectacular in the Southwest as this town of just under 10,000 people.'

Colorado's breathtaking scenery never ceases to amaze Hart, even after years of residing there

Standing out among the impressive locations is Telluride, nestled in a box canyon in the San Juan Mountains that the state is known for

Telluride, Colorado

Colorado's breathtaking scenery never ceases to amaze Hart, even after years of residing there.

Standing out among the impressive locations is Telluride, nestled in a box canyon in the San Juan Mountains that the state is known for.

In this town at an elevation of 8,750 feet, the possibilities are endless, from hiking and biking to climbing and rafting, offering a diverse range of outdoor experiences.

Hart said: 'The small town offers adventure, luxury, and views you won't find anywhere else.'

As one of the most renowned national parks globally, Yosemite National Park captures the top spot on the bucket lists of tourists worldwide

Yosemite National Park

'I wouldn't trust a list of the most beautiful places in the US that didn't include Yosemite National Park,' Hart wrote.

As one of the most renowned national parks globally, Yosemite captures the top spot on the bucket lists of tourists worldwide.

Spanning 761,268 acres, the park offers a diverse landscape of mountains, forests, and rivers, showcasing towering granite formations and numerous waterfalls.

'In Yosemite, you'll be surrounded by beauty that can't be captured or described,' Hart wrote.

The Georgia Coast

Hart herself admitted to the unexpected choice of placing the Georgia coast high on the list of the most beautiful spots in the U.S.

She said the place may be 'not as obviously awe-inspiring or in-your-face as the dramatic Western vistas and mountaintops often seen as bucket-list locations.'

Nevertheless, the unique beauty found on Cumberland Island, combined with the experience of relaxing on an 'uninterrupted and undeveloped beach', compelled Hart to feature it prominently.

Hart herself admitted to the unexpected choice of placing the Georgia coast high on the list of the most beautiful spots in the U.S.

Traveling solo in a van through Alaska proved to be a once-in-a-lifetime experience for Hart

'Although the views throughout the state were some of the most beautiful I've ever seen, Seward was the place I never wanted to leave,' she wrote

Seward, Alaska

Traveling solo in a van through Alaska proved to be a once-in-a-lifetime experience for Hart.

'Although the views throughout the state were some of the most beautiful I've ever seen, Seward was the place I never wanted to leave,' she wrote.

The southern Alaskan port city stands as the gateway to Kenai Fjords National Park, where glaciers cascade from the Harding Icefield into picturesque coastal fjords.

Activities abound in Seward, from camping on the beach to kayaking in the bay or a sightseeing tour to spot puffins, humpback whales, and sea otters.

Almost a decade after her initial visit to the Grand Teton, Hart remains captivated by the breathtaking beauty that the mountains and lakes of the region present

The place is worth revisiting over a dozen times, according to Hart, thanks to its striking peaks, abundant wildlife, and the crystal-clear blue lakes

Grand Teton National Park in Wyoming

Almost a decade after her initial visit to the Grand Teton, Hart remains captivated by the breathtaking beauty that the mountains and lakes of the region present.

Traversing more than 200 miles of the park's trails feels like navigating through a surreal 'mirage,' Hart said.

The place is worth revisiting over a dozen times, according to Hart, thanks to its striking peaks, abundant wildlife, and the crystal-clear blue lakes.

The ever-changing perspectives offered by the landscape have drawn her back to experience the awe-inspiring beauty anew at viewpoints include String, Jackson, and Jenny Lake.