Bombshell new images have revealed the fate of Tim Calwell's 'marriage' to his Married At First Sight bride Sara Mesa.

The photos show the online business owner, 31, has apparently moved on from the nutritionist, 29, with a brunette bombshell named Barbara.

In the photos, taken earlier this month in Queensland, Calwell and the woman grabbed some takeaway food and drinks, before later heading to a nursery to buy some plants.

Tim did not appear to be wearing his wedding band in the photos.

At one point the reality TV hunk's new woman hugged Tim and planted a kiss on his cheek.

Bombshell new images have revealed the fate of Tim Calwell's 'marriage' to his Married At First Sight bride Sara Mesa

She wore an animal print mini-dress for the outing, paired with black sandals and dark Ray-Bans.

She wore her dark straight tresses loose and flowing for the romantic day with her new man.

Tim, meanwhile, went with a low-key look, pairing gray shorts with thongs and a black T-shirt.

Later, he changed into a sleeveless top to showcase his muscular arms.

The photos show the online business owner, 31, has apparently moved on from the nutritionist, 29, with a mystery brunette bombshell named Barbara

In the photos, taken earlier this month in Queensland, Calwell and the woman grabbed some takeaway food and drinks, before later heading to a nursery to buy some plants

Tim did not appear to be wearing his wedding band in the photos

Calwell addressed claims he was secretly texting an ex-girlfriend behind his TV wife Sara Mesa's back during filming for the show in an exclusive chat with Daily Mail Australia last week.

The revelations came to light on the Kyle and Jackie O show on Thursday, where a visibly shocked Sara Mesa was confronted with allegations Tim had been photographed with another woman on the Gold Coast.

'I don't know if this is true, but multiple people I know up in Queensland have said that this Tim has been rooting this Brazilian the entire time, all through the MAFS, all through the filming,' radio host Kyle Sandilands disclosed.

At one point the reality TV hunk's new woman hugged Tim and planted a kiss on his cheek

She wore an animal print mini-dress for the outing, paired with black sandals and dark Ray-Bans

Sara, taken aback by the allegations, could only express her surprise.

Speaking to Daily Mail Australia Tim adamantly denied cheating on his TV bride.

'No I wasn't seeing anyone through the experiment. I was literally locked in, dialled in, trying to make our relationship work,' he explained.

'I don't know why, if she's bringing that up... she's trying to throw heat on my end to try and distract, maybe, from whatever going on in her ballpark.'

Tim described his TV marriage with Sara as 'toxic' and very up and down.

She wore her dark straight tresses loose and flowing for the romantic day with her new man

Tim, meanwhile, went with a low-key look, pairing gray shorts with thongs and a sleeveless top

Calwell addressed claims he was secretly texting an ex-girlfriend behind his TV wife Sara Mesa's back during filming for the show in an exclusive chat with Daily Mail Australia last week

'It was definitely very up and down. Almost toxic at this point, I don't know,' he said.

'We were trying our best to be in a relationship. The whole experience is very intense anyway... it was definitely wasn't comfortable for me.'

Tim hinted there may be trouble for the newlyweds in the show's future and told fans to buckle up for what's about to come.

He referred to a dinner party blow-up where he claimed Sara had cancelled dates with him on three occasions, and she responded furiously.

The revelations came to light on the Kyle and Jackie O show on Thursday, where a visibly shocked Sara Mesa was confronted with allegations Tim had been photographed with another woman on the Gold Coast

Speaking to Daily Mail Australia Tim adamantly denied cheating on his TV bride

Tim's new love balances several items during the new couple's trip to a nursery

'I think her bailing on the dates was more of a catalyst for the other things that were going on behind the scenes,' he said.

'I was getting really frustrated by being spoken over and talked down to.

'My feelings and my opinions were just being thrown back in my face and it just felt like nothing I had to say was valid.'

Tim admitted his frustration may not have entirely come from the cancelled dates.

'It's more of a catalyst of my frustrations of being put down over the course of the three weeks or however long it was,' he said.

Tim's wife Sara set to be rocked by cheating scandal

Daily Mail Australia can reveal that Sara is set to be find herself at the centre of a cheating scandal in the coming weeks.

According to well placed insiders, the nutritionist has been accused of meeting up with her ex-boyfriend while filming the show.

The revelation is set to 'divide friendships' and 'tear the cast apart'.

Tim hinted there may be trouble for the newlyweds in the show's future and told fans to buckle up for what's about to come