Jemima Khan has been spotted in public for the first time since her disgraced ex-husband and former Pakistan leader Imran Khan was jailed on allegations of corruption last month.

The journalist and socialite, 50, was seen in London this morning looking low-key in a black full length puffer jacket and Chanel blacked-out sunglasses.

She was photographed alongside a pal, wheeling a vintage-style bicycle along the pavement.

The mother-of-two, who lives in Chelsea, teamed her look with a pair of white lace-up trainers, with her trademark fringe swept back from her face.

The socialite wed ex cricketer Khan in 1995 before they separated in June 2004; the couple share two sons Sulaiman, 27, and Qasim, 25.

Jemima Khan (pictured) has been spotted in public for the first time since her disgraced ex-husband and former Pakistan leader Imran Khan was jailed on allegations of corruption last month

The socialite, who shares two sons with Khan, was photographed alongside a pal strolling down a London street

Last month, Khan, 71, was sentenced to 14 years in jail on a graft charge in January, just one day after he was given a 10-year prison term a week before national elections.

Khan and his third-wife Bushra Bibi were both found guilty of retaining and selling state gifts the former prime minister received while in office for personal profit.

Their sentences were handed down mere hours after Imran was slapped with the 10-year sentence in a case related to leaking state secrets.

Khan's fall from grace is a stark contrast to the glamorous life the one-time world-famous ­cricketer and playboy extra­ordinaire once lived.

The ex cricketer once resided in a lavish Knightsbridge apartment that had a ­mirrored dining room and a painted tiger mural, even described by one visitor as having ‘a bedroom of great expectations’.

Originally Jemima Goldsmith, she married Imran Khan in 1995 (pictured with him after their civil wedding ceremony in Richmond)

Jemima moved to Pakistan after her marriage to Imran, but reportedly struggled to adjust. They split amicably in 2004

His success as a charismatic, aggressive fast bowler was matched only by his reputation as a smoulderingly handsome lothario.

Throughout the 1980s and early 1990s, he had ­London society - and some of its most beautiful women - lying at his feet.

One of those women was Jemima - the daughter of business tycoon James Goldsmith - who he married in 1995.

Khan faces spending the rest of his life behind bars following multiple rulings that his party says were a deliberate attempt to discredit them ahead of the country's February 7th election.

Pakistan's former Prime Minister Imran Khan has been hit with two separate jail terms

FILE - Pakistan's former Prime Minister Imran Khan, right, and Bushra Bibi,his wife, talk to the media before signing documents to submit surety bond over his bails in different cases, at an office of Lahore High Court in Lahore, Pakistan, on July 17, 2023

Former Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan (C) with his wife Bushra Bibi (L)

It was not immediately clear if Khan's sentences were to run consecutively or concurrently following a trial held inside the jail where he has been detained for much of the time since his arrest in August.

But his lawyer, Salman Safdar, confirmed he had been sentenced alongside his wife, Bushra Bibi, who had been on remand throughout the trial.

Intazar Hussain Panjutha, a member of Khan's legal team, said Bibi had surrendered herself to authorities.

Bibi, a faith healer who met Khan when he approached her for spiritual guidance, rarely appears in public and only wearing a face-covering hijab when she does.

The pair married in 2018, months before Khan was elected prime minister.

Since being ousted in 2022, Khan has been buried by court cases he claims have been triggered to prevent his return to office after a campaign of defiance against Pakistan's military kingmakers.

The 71-year-old had accused the powerful military - with whom he ruled in partnership for much of his tenure - of orchestrating his ouster in a US-backed conspiracy.

Pakistan's former Prime Minister and leader of the Pakistan Muslim League (PML) party Nawaz Sharif has had his own corruption convictions wiped

Pakistan's former Prime Minister and leader of the Pakistan Muslim League (PML) party Nawaz Sharif (R) along with his daughter Maryam Nawaz (C)

When Khan was first arrested in May last year, riots broke out across the country.

But his street power was killed by a military crackdown that saw thousands of supporters detained - 100 of whom are facing closed-door military trials - and dozens of senior leaders forced underground.

'You have to take revenge for every injustice with your vote on February 8,' Khan said in a statement posted on his X profile reacting to his 10-year sentence.

'Tell them that we are not sheep that can be driven with a stick.'

As a result of the ongoing crackdown, PTI moved most of its campaigning online, where it was bogged down by state-imposed internet blackouts.

The party founded by former cricket star Khan was also stripped of its cricket bat election symbol - in a nation where literacy lags, making icons vital for identifying candidates on ballot papers.

Nawaz Sharif - head of one of the two dynastic parties that have historically helmed Pakistan - has returned from self-imposed exile and seen his myriad convictions dissolve in the courts.

Analysts said it was a sign the three-time former prime minister was the favoured candidate of the military, which has directly ruled Pakistan for just under half its history.

About 127 million Pakistanis were eligible to vote at the national elections, with Khan and his PTI at the centre of debate despite being squeezed out of the limelight.