Working patterns may have changed, but many of us still need to book time off far in advance, so it makes sense to make the most of every public holiday that comes along.

This year there are eight Bank Holidays in England and Wales, so with shrewd planning around these dates and their companion weekends it is possible to stretch 21 days of annual leave into a fabulous 49 days of holiday.

If you live in Scotland or Northern Ireland, which enjoy ten public holidays a year, the prospects are even better.

But this is the time to get planning. EasyJet is running its Big Orange Sale and many tour operators have deals to entice us to book early.

Here are the key dates to take off, along with 16 holidays that fit them exactly, from budget breaks and all-inclusive beach resorts to long-haul luxury escapes.

This year there are eight Bank Holidays so with shrewd planning around these dates and their companion weekends it is possible to stretch 21 days of annual leave into 49 days of holiday

MAKE IT A TEN-DAY EASTER BREAK

This year, the Easter weekend kicks off early on Friday, March 29. To get ten days away take off March 25–28 or April 2–5, or for a leisurely 16-day holiday, take off both periods.

BUDGET: Malta and its cuisine will be in the spotlight from Monday when the ITV series Ainsley’s Taste Of Malta, hosted by celebrity chef Ainsley Harriott, airs (visitmalta.com). Make your own foodie discoveries over a long Easter break at Pebbles Resort in St Paul’s Bay. Fifteen nights departing Luton on March 23 costs from £652 pp half-board including Ryanair flights (loveholidays.com).

Malta and its cuisine will be in the spotlight from Monday when the ITV series Ainsley’s Taste Of Malta, hosted by celebrity chef Ainsley Harriott, shows

ALL-INCLUSIVE: In the south of Portugal, Tivoli Alvor Algarve resort is close to four golf courses with four restaurants, six heated pools and a wellness centre (tivolihotels.com). Nine nights departing Luton on March 23 costs from £977 pp including EasyJet flights (lastminute.com).

Tivoli Alvor Algarve resort in the south of Portugal is close to four golf courses with four restaurants, six heated pools and a wellness centre

EXPLORING: Cape Town quietens down in the African autumn, making this a good time to visit this spectacular waterfront city and the wine estates around Franschhoek (capetown.travel). A nine-night self-drive Cape And Winelands Escape, departing Heathrow on March 23, costs from £2,950 pp including British Airways flights, car hire and B&B accommodation (rainbowtours.co.uk).

Cape Town quietens down in the African autumn, making this a good time to visit this spectacular waterfront city

LUXURY: Underwater thrills are a key reason to visit the Maldives and the Coco Bodu Hithi resort, in North Malé Atoll, features a house reef with resident turtles. This is also a good time to spot manta rays (coco collection.com). Nine nights departing Heathrow on March 23 costs from £3,449 pp B&B including Emirates flights via Dubai and speedboat transfers. Book by February 29 (trailfinders.com).

The Coco Bodu Hithi resort, in North Malé Atoll, Maldives, features a house reef with resident turtles.

EVEN LONGER SPRING BREAK

In May there are Bank Holidays on Monday 6 and 27. For a nine-day escape take off May 7–10 or 28–31.

BUDGET: May is an ideal month to explore the Moroccan city of Marrakech when the weather’s not too hot. Stay in the medina at Angsana Riads Collection, a set of intimate guesthouses minutes from Jemaa el-Fnaa Square (angsana.com). Eight nights departing Gatwick on May 4 costs from £549 pp B&B including British Airways flights. Book by February 9 (britishairways.com/marrakech).

May is an ideal month to explore the Moroccan city of Marrakech when the weather’s not too hot

ALL-INCLUSIVE: On the south-west coast of Sri Lanka at Ahungalla, the beachfront Hotel Riu Sri Lanka is primed for fly-and-flop downtime with 500 rooms, three pools, a nightclub and spa (riu.com). Eight nights departing Heathrow on May 25 costs from £1,201 pp including Etihad Airways flights via Abu Dhabi (holidaypirates.com).

The beachfront Hotel Riu Sri Lanka is primed for fly-and-flop downtime with 500 rooms, three pools, a nightclub and spa

EXPLORING: Discover landlocked North Macedonia on a guided small-group walking tour taking in Byzantine churches, national parks and a birdwatching boat trip (macedonia-timeless.com). Eight nights departing Heathrow on May 25 costs from £2,689 pp half-board including Austrian Airlines flights via Vienna, accommodation and transfers (walksworldwide.com).

Discover landlocked North Macedonia on a guided small-group walking tour taking in Byzantine churches, national parks and a birdwatching boat trip

LUXURY: Set on a private island close to Ream National Park in the south of Cambodia, Six Senses Krabey is a five-star beach resort with private pool villas. Activities range from snorkelling and stargazing to jungle hikes and cooking classes (sixsenses.com). Eight nights departing Edinburgh on May 4 costs from £2,990 pp B&B including Qatar Airways flights via Doha and transfers. Book by March 31 (turquoiseholidays.com).

Discover Cambodia with flights departing Edinburgh on May 4 from £2,990 pp

CASH IN ON THE AUGUST BANK HOLIDAY

This month’s Bank Holiday falls on August 26, so for a nine-day break take off August 27-30.

BUDGET: Culture lovers have good reason to visit Prague this summer. The capital of the Czech Republic is marking 100 years since the death of writer Franz Kafka and 2024 is also the Year Of Czech Music, a once-in-a-decade celebration (prague.eu). Eight nights at Mama Shelter Prague, departing Luton on August 24, costs from £410 room-only, including Wizz Air flights with hand luggage (expedia.co.uk).

The capital of the Czech Republic is marking 100 years since the death of writer Franz Kafka and 2024 is also the Year Of Czech Music, a once-in-a-decade celebration

ALL-INCLUSIVE: With cartoon-themed rooms, a full-on adventure park and nightly shows, the Rixos Land Of Legends resort in Antalya ticks all the boxes for a one-stop family holiday in the Turkish sun (thelandoflegends.com). Eight nights departing Gatwick on August 24 costs from £1,734 pp based on a family of four sharing including SunExpress flights and transfers (tui.co.uk).

Enjoy the Turkish sun by visiting one of the country's luxurious all-inclusive resorts

EXPLORING: Enjoy a late summer cycle ride through north-eastern France sampling wines, visiting hilltop châteaux and spending the night in three historic towns. An eight-night self-guided Villages & Vineyards Of Alsace tour, departing Gatwick on August 24, costs from £1,459 B&B including EasyJet flights, bike hire and transfers (inntravel.co.uk).

Enjoy a late summer cycle ride through north-eastern France sampling wines, visiting hilltop châteaux and spending the night in three historic towns

LUXURY: Head to the Greek island of Corfu to mix beach fun with sightseeing. Attractions on this popular Ionian isle include the World Heritage-listed Old Town and the 13th-century hilltop monastery at Paleokastritsa (visit.corfu.gr). Eight nights at The Olivar Suites in Messonghi, departing Gatwick on August 24, costs from £2,061 B&B including EasyJet flights and transfers (sovereign.com).

Head to the Greek island of Corfu to mix beach fun with sightseeing

CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR EXTRAVAGANZA

The festive period is a hectic and pricey time to travel, so maximise the benefits by going for as long as possible. Christmas Day and Boxing Day, December 25–26, fall on a Wednesday and Thursday and New Year’s Day 2025 is also on a Wednesday, so the smart option is to create a 12-day break by taking off December 23, 24, 27, 30 and 31.

BUDGET: Cyprus is a good pick for an affordable Christmas getaway with average temperatures as high as 19c (visitcyprus.com). Eleven nights at the Grecian Bay Hotel in Paphos, departing Heathrow on December 21, costs from £1,389 pp B&B including British Airways flights. Book by February 9 (britishairways.com/larnaca).

Cyprus is a good pick for an affordable Christmas getaway with average temperatures as high as 19c

ALL-INCLUSIVE: Christmas is celebrated with gusto in Tenerife. Many towns put up lights and decorations and New Year’s Eve is heralded with elaborate firework displays (visittenerife.es). Eleven nights at Los Olivos Beach Resort in Costa Adeje, departing Newcastle on December 21, costs from £1,933 pp including TUI Airways flights and transfers (firstchoice.co.uk).

Eleven nights at Los Olivos Beach Resort in Costa Adeje, departing Newcastle on December 21, costs from £1,933 pp

EXPLORING: Hit the road on a Best of the West fly-drive holiday from Los Angeles, taking in Palm Springs, the Grand Canyon, Las Vegas and San Francisco (visit california.com). Eleven nights departing Heathrow on December 21 costs from £2,499 pp room-only, including British Airways flights, accommodation and car hire (americanholidays.com).

Hit the road on a Best of the West fly-drive holiday from Los Angeles, taking in Palm Springs, the Grand Canyon, Las Vegas and San Francisco

LUXURY: With its many fine beaches and love of cricket and sailing, Antigua is perfect for a break in the Caribbean sunshine. Head to Nelson’s Dockyard for its famous Christmas Day Party or the Old Year’s Night Party on January 31 (visit antiguabarbuda.com). Eleven nights at Blue Waters Resort, departing Gatwick on December 21, costs from £7,696 pp B&B including British Airways flights and transfers (elegantresorts.co.uk).

With its many fine beaches and love of cricket and sailing, Antigua is perfect for a break in the Caribbean sunshine

All prices based on two sharing including one checked bag unless otherwise stated, subject to availability.