Barry Keoghan looked to be in great spirits as he messed around with his co-star Anthony Boyle on Thursday evening.

The pair were amongst a series of stars attending an exclusive dinner hosted by British GQ and Paul Smith to celebrate Excellence in Film with Barry Keoghan at Mount Street Restaurant in London.

Looking stylish for the evening, the Satlburn star, 31, opted for a pale blue matching suit jacket and trousers which were adorned with white stitching.

Keeping it casual with a navy T-shirt underneath, the actor completed the look with some navy leather trainers.

Inside the event Barry and his Masters Of The Air co-star Anthony looked to be getting on well as they messed around with their phones while relaxing on the couch.

Barry Keoghan cut a stylish figure in pale blue suit as he attended an exclusive dinner hosted by British GQ and Paul Smith to celebrate Excellence in Film with Barry Keoghan at Mount Street Restaurant in London

Barry looked to be in great spirits as he messed around with his co-star Anthony Boyle, who affectionately put his arm around the Irishman

As he sat with his arm around Barry, Anthony opted for a black suit and white shirt which he paired with a deep wine coloured tie.

Barry ensured he mingled with all the guests throughout the evening as he was also snapped with Tom Hiddleston.

The Night Manager star, 43, opted for a light brown tweed style suit as he beamed beside the Irishman.

Elsewhere Barry's Saltburn co-star Archie Madekwe smartened up in a suit and shiny blue tie.

Martin Freeman looked unrecognisable as he unveiled a new look for the event in a navy beret and tinted pink shades.

The actor, 52, looked to have entered a new era in the quirky get up as he opted for a dark tweed jacket and navy T-shirt, while his spotted handkerchief poked out his pocket.

The event comes after Barry set pulses racing after he stripped down to his underwear for steamy Valentine's day shoot with Bumble on Wednesday.

The star sent fans wild with the post as he flaunted his toned abs and muscular arms in the snaps.

Inside the event Barry and his Masters Of The Air co-star Anthony looked to be getting on well as they messed around with their phones while relaxing on the couch

Looking stylish for the evening, the Satlburn star opted for a pale blue matching suit jacket and trousers which were adorned with white stitching

Anthony opted for a black suit and white shirt which he paired with a deep wine coloured tie

Barry ensured he mingled with all the guests throughout the evening as he was also snapped with Tom Hiddleston

Elsewhere Barry's Saltburn co-star Archie Madekwe smartened up in a suit and shiny blue tie

Barry, Sir Paul Smith and Deputy Global Editorial Director of GQ Magazine Adam Baidawi

Martin Freeman looked unrecognisable as he unveiled a new look for the event in a navy beret and tinted pink shades

The actor, 52, looked to have entered a new era in the quirky get up as he opted for a dark tweed jacket and navy T-shirt, while his spotted handkerchief poked out his pocket

Barry, actor Alex Wolff and Sir Paul Smith beamed for snaps together

Netflix's Sex Education star Asa Butterfield was also in attendance

Donning only a tiny pair of white underwear, the post simply read 'Happy Valentine's Day' as he captioned the snap: 'From us to you @bumble'.

In another snap the star donned an open blue linen shirt and jeans as he leant against a pool table with a sultry look on his face.

Fans went wild for the sexy snaps as they took to the comment section to share their excitement.

One wrote: 'I physically lost my breathe for a second' while a second added: 'I JUST OPENED INSTAGRAM GODDAMMIT'.

Referencing the star's nude scenes in Saltburn, one joked: 'take em off it’s nothing we haven’t seen before'.

Another hinted to the famous improvised scene where his character Oliver has sex with Felix's grave, as they wrote: 'texted you the address to my grave, check DMs!!!!'