Brad Pitt 'couldn't be happier' in his relationship with girlfriend Ines de Ramon and has also 'found his spark again.'

The Bullet Train actor, 60, and the jewelry professional, 34, have also taken the 'natural' step by moving in together at his California home - 15 months after the lovebirds were first linked back in November 2022.

A source gave an update to People on the couple's romance in an article published on Saturday and told the outlet, 'They were spending so much time together at Brad's that it just made sense for Ines to move in with him.'

The insider added that the star is, 'very happy and loves spending time with her. Moving in together was a natural thing.'

'With Ines, he found his spark again. It's truly amazing to see. Brad's a great guy. He deserves to be happy.'

Brad Pitt, 60, 'couldn't be happier' in his budding relationship with girlfriend Ines de Ramon, 34, and has also 'found his spark again; seen in January 2023 in London

A source gave an update to People on the couple's romance in an article published on Saturday and told the outlet, 'They were spending so much time together at Brad's that it just made sense for Ines to move in with him'; seen in March 2023 in New York

Back in 2019, Pitt was declared legally single from ex Angelina Jolie, although the former couple's divorce has yet to be finalized - after the Maleficent actress filed in 2016.

'Since the divorce, Brad's dated but never seriously. This is the first serious relationship, and he couldn't be happier.'

The source added that it was 'amazing' to see the actor's happiness within the relationship, and described Ines as 'kind, funny and very special.'

Before being romantically linked to the Once Upon A Time In Hollywood star, the jewelry designer was married to The Vampire Diaries alum, Paul Wesley, from 2019 until their divorce in 2022.

Earlier this week, it was reported that Brad and Ines are now 'living together,' according to People, although she also still has her own place of residence.

An insider informed the publication that the big move was 'pretty recent,' while also adding, 'They are going very strong and she is happier than ever.'

A separate source also revealed to Entertainment Tonight, 'Brad and Ines have been living together.'

'She still has her own place, but they spend most of their time at his and Ines has most of her belongings there.'

'With Ines, he found his spark again. It's truly amazing to see. Brad's a great guy. He deserves to be happy,' the insider added; seen in July 2023

Before being romantically linked to the Once Upon A Time In Hollywood star, the jewelry designer was married to The Vampire Diaries alum, Paul Wesley, from 2019 until their divorce in 2022; Paul Wesley and Ines seen in 2019

'Brad really likes Ines and is taking their relationship seriously. He is not rushing next steps, but they're in a great spot and loving their time together. Ines is thrilled and super into Brad.'

On Thursday, Ines was spotted stepping out in Los Angeles to take an extravagant floral arrangement home that appeared to be gifted by Brad in celebration of Valentine's Day.

She put on a stylish display as she strolled towards a parked vehicle on the side of a busy street as an assistant followed closely behind while holding a large vase filled with pink and white flowers.

The lovebirds were first linked back in November 2022 when they attended a Bono concert in Los Angeles.

However, a source told People at the time that the pair had already been dating 'for a few months' before the public outing.

The following month, they both attended the Babylon premiere in L.A. but did not walk the red carpet together.

The pair have since been spotted on various other occasions together, such as celebrating Brad's 60th birthday late last year in December.

And earlier this month, both Brad and Ines attended the Santa Barbara International Film Festival and were spotted sitting next to each other during the festivities, per photos in Hello! Magazine.

On Thursday, Ines was spotted stepping out in Los Angeles to take an extravagant floral arrangement home that appears to be gifted by Brad in celebration of Valentine's Day; actor seen in February 2023 in NYC

And earlier this month, both Brad and Ines attended the Santa Barbara International Film Festival (seen above) and were spotted sitting next to each other during the festivities, per photos in Hello! Magazine

Pitt was in attendance to help present fellow actor, Bradley Cooper, with the Outstanding Performer of the Year Award.

'He seemed to be in very good spirits onstage when he presented the award to Bradley and poked fun at his friend, joking that he was just here for the free trip to Santa Barbara,' a source told People.

The lovebirds opted to skip the red carpet at the event and the insider expressed that when Pitt suddenly made an appearance, 'the crowd went crazy with excitement.'

The latest update on Brad's budding romance with Ines comes shortly after both the actor and his ex, Angelina Jolie, took another step towards finalizing their divorce.

The latest update on Brad's budding romance with Ines comes shortly after both the actor and his ex, Angelina Jolie, took another step towards finalizing their divorce - which was initially filed by the actress in 2016; seen in 2015 in Hollywood

'They're navigating the last of the red tape, which is a huge relief and morale boost,' a source recently told Us Weekly.

'It saddens him that he's not on better terms with some of his kids, and he regrets that things got so acrimonious with Angelina, but the days of looking back in anger are behind him.'

In 2002, Jolie adopted son Maddox, 22, as well as daughter Zahara, 19, in 2005 - one year after she began dating Pitt.

And in 2007, they adopted Pax, 20. They also share three biological children: Shiloh, 17, Knox, 15, and Vivienne, 15. Before the actor and Jolie tied the knot in 2014, Pitt notably adopted all of the children.