Prince Andrew has been spotted for the first time since the trailer for the Netflix adaptation of his 'car crash' interview with Emily Maitlis was revealed on Monday.

But the Duke of York, 63, seemed unbothered by the spotlight as he embarked on his weekly ride around the Windsor Estate in Berkshire with his groom in tow.

The King's brother grinned as he enjoyed the unseasonably warm weather on his Saturday morning ride, chatting animatedly with his companion.

He wore a khaki green light jacket over the top of a blue sweatshirt, and opted for black leather-look gloves and a riding helmet with a white stripe.

Andrew's outing comes after the trailer for Netflix's highly-awaited film Scoop, which dramatises the infamous Newsnight interview between Prince Andrew and Emily Maitlis, was released on Monday.

Prince Andrew has been spotted for the first time since the trailer for the Netflix adaptation of his 'car crash' interview with Emily Maitlis was revealed on Monday

The drama details the story behind the interview with the disgraced Duke of York, portrayed by Rufus Sewell, 56, and features an almost unrecognisable Billie Piper in blonde wig and high heels.

The actress stars as Sam McAlister, the Newsnight producer who secured Prince Andrew’s notorious 2019 interview with Maitlis, who is played by Gillian Anderson, 55.

Viewers hear just two words from Emily at the end of the trailer, when she addresses Prince Andrew as 'Your Highness'.

But it sounds like her husky tones hark back to Anderson's previous portrayal of Margaret Thatcher in The Crown, rather than Emily Maitlis on Newsnight.

The film is due to hit Netflix screens in the spring and explores a behind-the-scenes look at how the interview was secured and how events surrounding it unfolded.

Meanwhile, the Royal Family are continuing to rally around King Charles after news of his cancer diagnosis was revealed earlier in February.

It has not been confirmed what type of cancer the King has been diagnosed with, or what stage it is, but it is understood not to be prostate cancer and to have been caught early.

The Duke of York, 63, seemed unbothered by the spotlight as he embarked on his weekly ride around the Windsor Estate in Berkshire with his groom in tow

The King's brother grinned as he enjoyed the unseasonably warm weather on his Saturday morning ride, chatting animatedly with his companion

Doctors noticed something amiss while Charles, 75, was in hospital for surgery on a benign enlarged prostate, triggering further examination.

Buckingham Palace reported that the King had been diagnosed with cancer since then, only clarifying that it is not prostate cancer.

Palace officials say the kind is 'receiving expert care' on a regular, outpatient basis - though have not said what this entails.

As prince, Charles clashed with medical experts in 2004 when he publicly endorsed the idea cancer patients could be treated with vitamin injections and fruit juices.

For now, the palace has confirmed the king will not partake in most of his public duties, handing over to a skeleton staff of young royals.

The film (pictured) is due to stream in the spring. Netflix has finally realised the trailer and has also shared some images from the movie

The real life interview between Emily Maitlis and Prince Andrew which has been described as a 'car crash'

It is unknown how long King Charles will be forced to suspend public engagements, although it is believed he will continue working on all the duties he can.

The King will still be dealing with his red boxes of state business and official papers, and holding Privy Council meetings, which can be held via video, and weekly audiences with the Prime Minister, which can take place over the phone.

The Palace has called for the King's privacy to be respected, especially during his treatment, but said he wanted to make his diagnosis public because of his long-running support for cancer charities.

Buckingham Palace said in a statement: 'During The King's recent hospital procedure for benign prostate enlargement, a separate issue of concern was noted. Subsequent diagnostic tests have identified a form of cancer.'