Oscar winner Cate Blanchett looked incredibly chic as she attended the opening night of the theatre production The Picture of Dorian Gray in London on Thursday.

Cate, 54, wore a simple black jumpsuit with coordinating glasses.

The acclaimed actress was joined by Sydney Theatre Company Director Kip Williams, who wore a stylish cardigan with matching black trousers.

The play is Kip's critically acclaimed one-woman production adaption of the Oscar Wilde novel which has commenced its 14-week season at the Theatre Royal Haymarket.

The West End show stars Adelaide born actress Sarah Snook, 36, who has recently had a hugely successful awards season. Her role in Succession saw her triumph at the Critics Choice, Golden Globes and Emmy Awards.

Oscar winner Cate Blanchett looked incredibly chic as she attended the opening night of The Picture of Dorian Gray in London on Thursday

Snook plays a total of 26 characters in the production.

The red carpet appearance comes days after Blanchett hit the stage at the AACTA Awards in an outlandish pink dress, which she topped with a giant polka-dot bow on her head.

The outfit drew gasps of shock from the audience as Cate took to the microphone to present the Trailblazer Award to Margot Robbie, 33.

Cate, 54, wore a simple black jumpsuit with coordinating glasses. The acclaimed actress was joined by Sydney Theatre Company Director Kip Williams, who wore a stylish cardigan with matching black trousers

The play is Kip's acclaimed one-woman production adaption of the Oscar Wilde novel

The West End show stars Adelaide born actress Sarah Snook, 36, (pictured) who has recently had a hugely successful awards season

'Middle-aged Barbie,' the star said, as she struggled to keep a straight face.

She then comically winked at the audience, who responded with laughter and applause.

Meanwhile Margot could hardly control her own laughter as she took to the stage to accept her prize.

'If you asked me growing up who my favour actor was, my answer was always, and will always be, Cate Blanchett,' Robbie told her idol.

It comes days after Blanchett hit the stage at the AACTA Awards in an outlandish pink dress, which she topped with a giant polka-dot bow on her head

The outfit drew gasps of shock from the audience as Cate (left) took to the microphone to present the Trailblazer Award to Margot Robbie, 33 (right)