Elvis impersonators swaggered through Sydney's Central Station on Thursday, boarding the 'Elvis Express' on an unlikely annual pilgrimage paying homage to The King.

The train shaked, rattled and rolled out of the city and towards the small farming town of Parkes, which hosts around 25,000 die-hard fans at its Elvis Festival every year.

Passengers on the six-hour train trip were treated to a steady stream of Elvis-themed entertainment, with tribute artists belting out the King's biggest hits along the way.

Revellers in their sequin-encrusted jumpsuits danced to several of the King's biggest hits before boarding.

Elvis impersonators swaggered through Sydney's Central Station on Thursday, boarding the 'Elvis Express' on an unlikely annual pilgrimage paying homage to The King

Hundreds of revellers in sequin-encrusted jumpsuits danced to several of the King's biggest hits before boarding the train for the six-hour journey

Those with suspicious minds might point out Elvis Presley never sung a note in Australia, let alone Parkes, which lies about 350 kilometres (217 miles) inland from Sydney.

But impersonator Taz 'Funky Elvis' Dimtsis said he would latch on to any excuse to dust off his bright red jumpsuit.

'He thought he'd be forgotten, that's the thing. And look at him, he's bigger than ever,' he told AFP as a tribute act crooned Elvis hits on a nearby stage.

'It's fantastic,' he added before showing off his best hip swing.

Passengers on the train trip were treated to a steady stream of Elvis-themed entertainment, with tribute artists belting out the King's biggest hits along the way

'Jailhouse Rock', the 1957 musical drama starring Elvis, is the theme for this year's five-day festival, where street markets, lookalike contests and parades are planned

The excited Elvis lovers primped their pompadours and mopped sweat-soaked fake sideburns as they waited for the train in Sydney's muggy summer humidity.

Sporting an eye-catching costume adorned with glittering blue sequins, Jenny Dollin said she could barely contain her excitement.

'When you get to Parkes, the whole town is just out there to meet you. Makes me cry,' the 45-year-old told AFP.

The first Elvis Festival was held in Parkes in 1993, the brainchild of local restaurant owners Bob and Anne Steel.

The first Elvis Festival was held in Parkes in 1993, and it now welcomes around 25,000 die-hard fans every year

Today, the town of around 10,000 people proudly wears its moniker: 'The Elvis capital of Australia.'

'Jailhouse Rock', the 1957 musical drama starring Elvis, is the theme for this year's five-day festival, where street markets, lookalike contests and parades are planned.

Hundreds of fans had all this to look forward to as their Parkes-bound train pulled out of Sydney on Thursday morning, just two minutes behind schedule.

'We can confirm, Elvis has left the building,' the platform announcer said.