Rita Ora continued her Big Apple fashion parade on Thursday with a bold double denim look.

The singer put on a leggy display in a thigh-skimming denim mini dress layered under an oversized denim coat.

She added strappy heels as she strutted outside of the NBC studios to her car.

Flashing a smile Rita was also showing off her stunning hair makeover, rocking her new much shorter locks.

Rita Ora continued her Big Apple fashion parade on Thursday with a bold double denim look

Rita first showed off her stunning new hair look as she stepped out in New York City earlier on Thursday.

The singer, 33, had ditched her long blonde locks and debuted a chic brunette bob on the outing.

She looked sensational in a racy black cut-out top and smart flared trousers while boosting her height with chunky heels.

Rita also took to Instagram to upload some radiant snaps flaunting her new do as she posed up a storm for the camera.

The songstress penned in the caption: 'Sometimes you gotta cut out the things in life that don't serve you. #newchop @dimitrishair @samanthalmua.'

She looked beautiful in the pictures as she wore just a white hotel robe and had on glamorous makeup.

It comes after last week the star thanked her 16 million fans on Instagram for their support on her newest single Shape Of You.

It is a collaboration with Australian-American country artist Keith Urban, with whom Rita is a judge on The Voice Australia.

The singer put on a leggy display in a thigh-skimming denim mini dress layered under an oversized denim coat.

Rita showed off her stunning new hair look as she stepped out in New York City earlier on Thursday

Rita also took to Instagram to upload some radiant snaps flaunting her new do as she posed up a storm for the camera (seen right with her usual long blonde hair in December 2023)

She wrote: 'Thanks for all the looove on the new version of Shape Of Me with @keithurban!! You guys have made this song even more special and I didn’t think that was possible.'

Rita's third studio album You & I was released in 2023 but the singer hasn't been on tour since 2019.

She is married to director Taika Waititi, 48, who released his latest film Next Goal Wins in November 2023.

They married in August 2022, but Rita did not confirm the nuptials until January 2023 when she told Heart FM: 'Yes [I am married].

'I am officially off the market people. I chose to keep it more private and keep it to myself more but with my new video I am playing on what could have been.'

The singer, 33, had ditched her long blonde locks and debuted a chic brunette bob on the outing

The songstress penned in the caption: 'Sometimes you gotta cut out the things in life that don't serve you. #newchop @dimitrishair @samanthalmua'

She admitted: 'When the rumours came out - is she, isn't she? - I wanted to play on it. I wanted to do a wedding that didn't go to plan… that's not to say that is actually what happened.'

Rita recently opened up about whether or not kids on are the horizon, admitting her relationship with Taika had 'matured her'.

The singer told Blag Magazine that getting married was enough pressure, but 'then it's like have kids and all these things they teach you. But I've never believed in that.'

She and Taika certainly have enough space now that they have bought a three-storey mansion in New Zealand.

Rita shot to fame in 2012 with the single Hot Right Now, the UK's first-ever drum and bass number one.