Hundreds are up in arms over a 'disappointing' appeal to revoke a popular beach's 'clothing optional' provision.

Visitors have been able to leave their swimsuits at home when swimming or sunbathing at Tyagarah beach in Byron Bay since 1998 but NSW Parks and Wildlife Service (NWPS) have appealed to the council to strip the spot of its nudist status.

More than 150 nudists took to the beach in their birthday suits on Sunday to protest the appeal donning handmade signs with slogans including 'Naturism Heals', 'Nude is Natural' and 'Nude is not Lewd'.

Nude blogger and Tyagarah Beach regular Jessa O'Brien, 35, was at the protest and said she is 'deeply saddened and utterly disappointed' by the NWPS' 'very sudden' request to ban nudity in a letter to Byron Bay Shire Council.

'The lack of transparency on NSW NPWS' behalf and their omission of community consultation is unfair, undemocratic and unjust,' she said.

Byron Bay residents are protesting an appeal made by the NSW Parks and Wildlife Service to revoke Tyagarah Beach's clothing optional status by April

Nude blogger and Tyagarah Beach regular Jessa O'Brien (pictured) said she is 'deeply saddened and utterly disappointed' by the NWPS' 'very sudden' request to ban nudity

'I urge Council to propose a different course of action to NSW NPWS in which there is community consultation and a collaborative effort between themselves, Council and the naturist community.'

She said she thinks the council is unaware how 'far-reaching' the implications of shutting down clothing-optional beaches can be.

'As a female especially, I have been on the receiving end of constantly feeling sexualised/objectified in society…mostly when I am clothed, I’ll have you know,' she said.

'On the contrary to what the general public (and even yourself) may assume, the irony is that I feel less sexualised/objectified at a clothing-optional beach when I am stark naked than I do when I am walking down the street with my clothes on.

'A clothing-optional beach was the first time I had this profound experience and realisation that nudity, in and of itself, is not inherently sexual.'

Jessa also appeared on Sunrise on Monday morning in her fight to keep her favourite beach clothing optional saying the community was 'blindsided' by the request.

'We have no idea what the basis for this decision has actually been, that's the biggest thing, we just want in on the conversation,' she said.

'The lack of transparency on NSW NPWS' behalf and their omission of community consultation is unfair, undemocratic and unjust,' Jessa said

'It's a small, little 800m stretch of beach and for a lot of people, it's a lifestyle choice, that feels empowering and a lot of people get to meet like-minded people.'

Jessa, who has been visiting Tyagarah clothing-optional beach for seven years, said closing the beach would be 'robbing' the community of 'the very rare and tangible opportunity to experience our bodies, and nudity, in a very wholesome and healing way'.

'In today’s age of the internet and social media, our society needs these spaces and opportunities now more than ever,' she said.

'Revoking the clothing-optional status of Tyagarah not only disappoints the naturist community, but fails a wider portion of society and our community’s future generations.'

A petition was started by Byron Naturists Inc. president Bradley Benham on February 11 to save Tyagarah Beach's clothing-optional status calling on NPWS to reverse its decision has gained almost 3,000 signatures.

'The Tyagarah clothing-optional beach has been a place of fun and freedom since it was created by community activism over 25 years ago. Thousands of people now enjoy this beach responsibly,' the petition reads.

'Closing the beach on such short notice and without public consultation or the offer of an alternate location is unfair. We object to this decision.'

A petition was started by Byron Naturists Inc. president Bradley Benham on February 11 to save Tyagarah Beach's clothing-optional status has gained almost 3,000 signatures

In a letter sent to Byron Shire Council late last year, NPWS executive director Deon Van Rensburg said the service does not support having a clothing optional beach with in Tyagarah Nature Reserve as it is 'inconsistent with values of the reserve that it manages'.

NWPS also claimed that naturists were wandering off the designated beach area to also use dune and hind-dunes creating environmental issues.

'The NSW National Parks and Wildlife Service (NPWS) will continue to work with relevant stakeholders to identify alternative locations for the activity to take place,' the agenda said.

Councillors will vote on the matter on Thursday February 22 and should the request be granted all signage and other official channels to remove advice that the beach is 'clothing-optional' to be removed by April 8 or even sooner.

Those caught baring all at the beach could be slapped with a fine of up to $1,100.

When asked why the request for clothing to be mandatory on the beach now after 26 years, why beach attire is related to the issue of people going up into the dunes and if alternative nude beaches are being scoped out, NPSW gave the FEMAIL the following statement.

'The NSW National Parks and Wildlife Service (NPWS) will continue to work with relevant stakeholders to identify alternative locations for the activity to take place,' a spokesperson said.

'A final decision on the clothing optional area has not been made.'