Countries that feature in the list also include Colombia, Italy and Chile

The ranking has been drawn up by Booking.com using traveller reviews

The 20 most welcoming places on the planet have been named - and it's Perthshire in Scotland that's the No.1 region and the Brazilian city of Arraial d'Ajuda, famed for its azure blue beaches, that's the top destination.

The list has been drawn up by Booking.com, with entries identified based on the number of Traveller Review Awards each has.

Completing the top five in the region ranking are Penghu, Taiwan (second); Boyacá, Colombia (third); Trentino - Alto Adige, Italy (fourth); and Los Lagos, Chile (fifth).

Following Arraial d'Ajuda in the destination list are Ermoupoli, Greece (second); Viana do Castelo, Portugal (third); Daylesford, Australia (fourth); and Grindelwald, Switzerland (fifth).

The highest-ranked American locale is Moab, Utah. The city – renowned for its cinematic, rocky natural beauty – comes sixth on the destination list.

The 20 most welcoming places on the planet have been named - and it's Perthshire in Scotland that's the No.1 region. Above - Perth city centre

Penghu, Taiwan, is ranked as the second-most welcoming region

Boyaca, Colombia, is the third most welcoming region in the world

Speaking about Perthshire's crown as most welcoming region, Perth and Kinross Council leader Grant Laing said: 'To be recognised as one of 2024's most welcoming destinations on earth is a tremendous accolade and shows that hospitality in Perth and Kinross is second to none.

'We live in an area of outstanding natural beauty and welcome visitors from all over the world every year and have successfully hosted world-renowned events like the Ryder Cup, Solheim Cup and, just last year, welcomed thousands of participants for the Gran Fondo, part of the UCI World Championships.

'In March, Perth Museum will open its doors to the public for the first time. The new home of the Stone of Destiny will bring thousands more visitors to the area and I am sure they will all discover plenty to love about Perth and Kinross when they get here.'

MOST WELCOMING PLACES IN THE WORLD 2024, FROM PERTHSHIRE TO MOAB VIA LAPLAND TOP 10 REGIONS 1. Perthshire, United Kingdom 2. Penghu, Taiwan 3. Boyacá, Colombia 4. Trentino - Alto Adige, Italy 5. Los Lagos, Chile 6. Erongo, Namibia 7. Otago, New Zealand 8. Lapland, Finland 9. Asturias, Spain 10. Friesland, Netherlands TOP 10 DESTINATIONS 1. Arraial d'Ajuda, Brazil 2. Ermoupoli, Greece 3. Viana do Castelo, Portugal 4. Daylesford, Australia 5. Grindelwald, Switzerland 6. Moab, United States 7. Uzès, France 8. Mazatlán, Mexico 9. Jaisalmer, India 10. Fujikawaguchiko, Japan Source: Booking.com Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/travel/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Trentino - Alto Adige, Italy, has been ranked as the fourth most welcoming region in the world

Moab, Utah, is the sixth most welcoming destination in the world

Booking.com explained that it based its awards on more than 309million verified customer reviews, which evaluate the hospitality, service and standards of travel accommodations, activities and transport purveyors.

Only customers that have stayed at an accommodation, rented a car or rode in a taxi can leave a review of their experience on Booking.com.

Booking.com said: 'This year’s list of the Most Welcoming Places on Earth showcases a vast range of destinations from across the globe. From enchanting coastal towns to alpine retreats and even rustic desert gems, all these locations are sure to ignite a sense of wanderlust for the year ahead.'