From the outside, this property looks like a pretty bungalow with some designer features, including a bridge that leads to an ornate double door and some decorative windows.

But cross the threshold and you'll find that this expansive home for sale - with its £2.75million price tag - appears to have taken inspiration from nearby Windsor Castle.

Looks can certainly clearly be deceiving as the property is far from being a small one-storey home. It extends across three levels and includes a grand castle-themed living room with brick walls, arched windows and a statue of a knight in full armor.

At first glance, this Windsor property for sale looks like a small modern bungalow - but it has grand interiors

The kitchen and dining area also has a pitched brick vaulted ceiling with additional colourful carving.

This space leads to a separate section with a grand stone fireplace and two raised thrones that are fit for a king and queen.

Carved out of the top of each of the wooden chairs is an adjoining ornamental crown.

The back of the garden resembles more of a castle than a bungalow with high boundary walls with arched doorways

The interior also has a castle theme with the main living area boasting a pitched brick vaulted ceiling

There are two raised thrones that are fit for a King and Queen, with crowns carved out of the tops

The property is on the market with a price tag of £2.75million and is being sold by Fine & Country estate agents

The unusual property has some terraces that provide views across the large tiled courtyard

The opulence continues throughout the house, with a bright yellow room that includes several large white pillars and a large mural of a city canal scene.

The house has seven bedrooms, including one where the walls are covered with wood panelling.

Another one of the bedrooms has colourful walls and ceiling, including a mural with some nudes in water.

The castle-themed living room with brick walls, arched windows and a statue of a knight in full armor

The property is in Park Avenue, in the village of Wraysbury, which is some five miles from Windsor, Berkshire

There are more water features in the garden at the rear of the house, along with some topiary

The outside of the property is equally inspired by castles with its high boundary walls featuring arched doorways.

There are more water features in the garden at the rear of the house, along with some topiary.

The gated entrance at the front leads to a large open area with parking for around ten cars.

In total the house extends across an impressive 7,122 square feet and includes a basement.

The gated entrance at the front leads to a large open area with parking for around ten cars

The kitchen has arched shape cabinets - a design that is replicated on the breakfast bar

The property is in Park Avenue, in the village of Wraysbury, which is some five miles from Berkshire's Windsor.

Windsor is home to Windsor Castle, a residence of the Royal Family that was built by William The Conqueror in the 11th century.

The property has good links to public transport, being less than half a mile from Sunnymeads train station and 1.1 miles from Wraysbury train station.

It also has some schools nearby, including Wraysbury primary school and King's Court First School.

The average price of a property sold in Wraysbury in the past 12 months is £758,180.

It is more than the £338,400 average for the country as a whole, according to Zoopla.

The property is a seven-bedroom home that extends across three levels and has plenty of living space

The opulence continues throughout the house, with a bright yellow room that includes several large white pillars

The grand yellow reception room includes space for a grand piano and has a large mural of a city canal scene

The property has six bathrooms including this one with a waterfall shower, bidet and wood panelling on the walls

This double bedrooms has colourful walls and ceiling, including a mural with some nudes in water

Daniel Copley, of Zoopla, said: 'This spectacular home could be straight out of a Renaissance painting with its expansive interior, grand arches and sleek columns.

'The property doesn't only have an eye-catching interior - but also has a beautiful exterior complete with a unique Venetian-style courtyard, mature foliage and water feature.'