Hotels — and B&Bs for that matter — have become outrageously expensive post-pandemic. Some of the plusher ones in London charge in excess of £1,000 a night; elsewhere, £400 is becoming normal. And that’s before you’ve even sidled up to the bar for a sharpener.

But there’s still something special about a night away from home, with no cooking required, no dishes to wash and a breakfast spread to keep you going all day.

This selection includes places with just a few rooms, and some grander options requiring a fat wallet.

The Grove of Narberth

Molleston, Pembrokeshire

This fabulous family-run hotel sits in a dip behind a pond, surrounded by ancient woodland and sky-blue hydrangeas. There’s no ugly signage; no framed AA Rosette awards; no leaflets. Just a beautiful, somewhat quirky house, parts of which can be traced back to the 14th century. The restaurant has a Michelin star.

Doubles from £201 grovenarberth.co.uk

The Grove of Narberth is a beautiful, somewhat quirky house, parts of which can be traced back to the 14th century

The Lamb Inn

Shipton-under-Wychwood, Oxfordshire

Arriving here amid the chatter of happy diners dotted about in various nooks and crannies, with flagstone floors, a creaking bar and five understated rooms is a life-enhancer. Good value, too. Two thirtysomethings, Peter and Tom, are in charge, offering a superb menu (don’t miss the anchovy toast). Antique furniture and sumptuous linen await when it’s time to say goodnight.

Doubles from £99, thelambshipton.com

The Lamb of Shipton offers a superb menu (don’t miss the anchovy toast)

Lime Tree Hotel

Ebury St, London

This exceptional B&B in a double-fronted Belgravia house is one of London’s best-kept secrets. There are 27 rooms, all revamped within the past three years.

It has a private country house feel, with plush sofas, bright cushions and a pretty walled garden. All that’s missing is a golden retriever spread out in the hall. Breakfast is served in the Buttery next door, where residents get a 10 per cent discount.

Doubles from £220, limetreehotel.co.uk

The plush Lime Tree hotel

The Nici

Bournemouth

Miami Beach comes to Bournemouth in the form of this chic hotel that’s just had £25 million lavished on it. Your spirits will soar on stepping into the sunny Art Deco-style lobby, with palm-themed art and fun touches such as a Playboy pinball machine and table football.

Opt for a seaview room and don’t miss the spa in the basement. The outdoor pool, flanked by cabanas, quality sun-loungers and sunken fire pits is as swanky as anything Miami can muster.

Doubles from £155, thenici.com

Miami Beach comes to Bournemouth at The Nici

Callow Hall

Ashbourne, Derbyshire

Following its opening two years ago, Callow Hall, on the edge of the Peak District, has gained all sorts of plaudits. Rightly so. It’s bang on-trend, with Penny Morrison fabrics, Robert Kime wallpaper and Fermoie lampshades. The house dates back to the 1850s and the cedar tree near the front door is 800 years old. A fabulous glass box at the back of the building houses the bar and restaurant.

Doubles from £224, wildhive.uk

Grand Hotel

Birmingham

No one claims this 185-room establishment is bijou – with a whole floor set up for conferences, a ballroom, huge swanky bar and New York-style restaurant in the basement. Some £45 million has been spent on its revival — and it works. Look out for the sweeping staircase with Corinthian columns. Grand, indeed.

Doubles from £199, thegrandhotelbirmingham.co.uk

The Olive Branch

Clipsham, Rutland

Ben Jones, who has worked at both Hambleton Hall and Gravetye Manor, bought this closed pub in 1999 and then acquired the pretty little house opposite where there are now six bedrooms. The atmosphere is inviting (Ben’s father used to be in the antiques trade), the food utterly delicious. A perfect stay.

Doubles from £175, theolive branchpub.com

The atmosphere is inviting at The Olive Branch

The Pig in the Wall

Southampton

The Pig is a big brand. This one is the smallest and cheapest, with just 12 rooms in an exquisite turreted building within Southampton’s medieval walls. The downstairs space is given over to old wooden tables and comfortable upholstered armchairs. There’s no restaurant as such but plenty to eat from the deli and a few daily specials.

Doubles from £159, thepighotel.com

The Retreat at Elcot Park

Newbury, Berkshire

Young Hector Ross’s Signet Collection has taken over this former Mercure hotel, which once belonged to poet Percy Shelley’s mother — and it’s been transformed. Spa, swimming pool, bakery, wine shop, deli and a hairdresser’s are all on site. There are two restaurants, including a pan-Asian one. Don’t miss the ‘crispy cauliflower popcorn’ with teriyaki and soy.

Doubles from £216. retreatelcotpark.com

Young Hector Ross’s Signet Collection has taken over this former Mercure hotel, which once belonged to poet Percy Shelley’s mother

The Bell

Charlbury, Oxfordshire

It’s easy to mock Lord and Lady Bamford’s expanding Daylesford empire — but this latest revamped pub with 12 rooms won’t disappoint. Every nook and cranny works. There are at least three crackling open fires; the wood panelling and artwork (including a wall of pressed flowers and herbs) have a sense of belonging; the staff are all friendly. the food is fabulous.

Doubles from £176, thebellatcharlbury.com

Locanda On The Weir

Portlock Weir, Somerset

There are only four rooms, three of which face the sea. The building is set back from the main drag, which draws visitors throughout the summer. It was bought six years ago by a former Italian city trader and his designer partner. Dinner is the big deal — fresh, creative and beautifully presented.

Doubles from £225, locandaontheweir.co.uk

Schloss Roxburghe

Kelso, Scotland

It looks like Balmoral from the outside, albeit with a huge newly-built spa at the rear of the building. It used to be owned by the Duke of Roxburghe before being sold to a German company.

Fabulous rooms with high ceilings, antique furniture and two restaurants. Locals say some £50 million has been bumped into this resort hotel in the Scottish Borders. It shows.

Doubles from £194, schlosshotel-roxburghe.com

Locals say some £50 million has been bumped into this resort hotel in the Scottish Borders

The Bottle & Glass

Henley-on-Thames

This is a tiny thatched pub in the Chiltern Hills, which has been expanded to create a large eating area and three rooms in an adjoining building. You come here for the atmosphere and the food. Value for money, too.

Doubles from £120, bottleandglassinn.com

Middleton Lodge

Richmond, Yorkshire

A Georgian house designed by John Carr is the centrepiece, but 41 rooms are scattered about in the converted stables, dairy, orchard and wall garden. You’re minutes away from the A1(M) near Scotch Corner, but it feels like Provence.

The staff are cheerful; the food all locally sourced; the wines carefully chosen and fairly priced. Some rooms have their own wood-burners. Take a walk in the gardens before leaving.

Doubles from £245 b&b, middletonlodge.co.uk

At Middleton Lodge, the staff are cheerful; the food all locally sourced; the wines carefully chosen and fairly priced

Boys Hall

Ashford, Kent

Not the most salubrious of areas but once you’re cocooned in this fabulous Jacobean house (built by Thomas and Margaret Boys in 1616), all is well.

Rooms are big and tasteful, some with freestanding baths. The restaurant is a barn-like conversion at the back with a vast fireplace.

No TVs, apart from one in the pub, hidden away off the main hall.

Currently, there are seven rooms but more are planned, some in lodges in the garden.

Doubles from £180, boys-hall.com

Rooms are big and tasteful at Boys Hall in Ashford, Kent

Trewornan Manor

Wadebridge, Cornwall

This Grade II-listed manor near the spectacular North Cornish coast was in a terrible state when the owners bought it in 2014.

Today, it’s a terrific B&B, with a generosity of spirit (complementary cakes at teatime), honesty bar and 25 acres of grounds.

All rooms are named after beaches in the area.

Not cheap but for ever cheerful.

Doubles from £180, trewornanmanor.co.uk