When MailOnline Travel's Harriet Sime flew in Emirates' A380 premium economy, she commented that 'it had such a business-class feel' that she was 'forced to check she was in the right cabin'.

'It's a game-changer,' she concluded, her verdict in sync with the results of the 'Oscars of Aviation', the Skytrax World Airline Awards 2023, in which Emirates snared the 'World's Best Premium Economy Seat' gong.

However, there's a rival for this crown – the new Air France premium economy, which left respected YouTuber Nonstop Dan 'blown away'. He was so impressed that he declared it to be 'on a par' with the Emirates offering.

These striking summations are made in a YouTube video he films on an Air France A350 flight from Abu Dhabi to Gothenburg, with a layover in Paris.

He told MailOnline Travel that his experience in the 24-seat Air France cabin 'exceeded' his expectations and that he'd 'absolutely' fly its premium economy again.

Your browser does not support iframes.

The new Air France premium economy, which left respected YouTuber Nonstop Dan 'blown away'

Dan is so impressed that he declared Air France premium economy to be 'on a par' with the Emirates offering

The Air France video is part of Dan's new 'premium economy' YouTube series

Filming its interior, Dan says the divide between economy and premium economy offers 'a really private feeling'. And there's 'plenty of knee room' between seats to accommodate his 6ft 2in frame.

However, upon further inspection, he says the brand new A350 is 'in need of maintenance'. He notes that the footrest for his travelling companion, Oscar, does not extend, the Wi-Fi 'doesn't work for 90 per cent of the flight', and while 'massive', his entertainment screen is 'busted', with huge cracks at the bottom.

And while there is plenty of space when the seats are upright, Dan claims that when the seat in front is in full recline, the gap you're forced to manoeuvre through to reach the aisle is the height of an iPhone. Dan says: 'If your legs are not skinnier than the height of an iPhone, I have some bad news for you - you are not getting out of your seat.'

Dan's Air France flight is from Abu Dhabi to Gothenburg, with a layover in Paris. Dan says the divide between economy and premium economy offers 'a really private feeling'

The 6ft 2in flight expert says there's 'plenty of knee room' between seats

Dan claims the brand new A350 plane is in need of 'maintenance', revealing his 'busted' entertainment screen in the video

Dan describes the Air France A350 premium economy cabin as 'beautiful'

That being said, with a 'comfortable headrest and nice bedding', Dan says there is a 'real risk' of falling asleep.

And there's an amenity kit, which is 'a nice gesture'.

On the food and drink front, Dan says Air France serves 'basically the same meals in economy and premium economy'. He adds: 'My vegan meal is delicious, and so are the four starburst-sized fruit pieces and the eighth of a Kiwi.'

Yet both the portion sizes and the bread aren't to satisfaction. He says: 'You have to wonder how the French agree to serve bread like this on their national carrier.'

Dan is left unimpressed with the legroom once passengers in front have reclined. He says the gap between seats is 'the height of an iPhone'

In the video, Dan shows Oscar struggle to get back into his seat after the passenger in front reclines

What would Dan describe as the high points? He told MailOnline Travel: 'The beautiful cabin, comfortable seats and excellent recline.'

And the low points?

He said: 'The catering on my flight was the biggest letdown since portions were tiny. Luckily, there were snacks available, which is surprisingly rare in premium economy.'

Dan claimed the catering on the Air France flight was the 'biggest let down', describing the portions as 'tiny'

Dan ponders how the French 'agree to serve bread like this on their national carrier'

The snacks on the flight get a thumbs up from Dan

Would he fly in the seat again?

He said: 'I'd absolutely fly it again on flights under seven hours. For anything longer, I'd prefer business class since the space can still feel quite restricted.'

How does it compare to other premium economy cabins such as Emirates or Lufthansa?

He said: 'Lufthansa's is usually cheaper, which justifies its product being worse. Meanwhile, Emirates is usually far more expensive than Air France. Although Emirates is better in some ways, especially when it comes to food and inflight service, its premium economy does not justify the additional cost over Air France.'

Dan's premium economy seat would have cost $587 (£461), but he paid 35,000 air miles plus €99 (£85/$107.84) in taxes. The video is part of Dan's new 'premium economy' YouTube series. For more from Nonstop Dan visit www.youtube.com/dantorp11/videos. For Dan's Instagram page visit - www.instagram.com/thenonstopdan. Visit his website for more tips - nonstopdan.com.

On the video Dan describes the amenity kit 'as a nice gesture'

Premium economy passengers are furnished with a remote control for some of the seat functions

Air France offers 24 premium economy seats, which bridge the gap between economy and business class