In the tapestry of human history, certain landmarks stand as a testament to the ingenuity, cultures and craftsmanship of our ancestors.

Collectively, these destinations are known as ‘The Seven Wonders of the World’.

While today there are lists that include new and natural wonders too, it’s no secret that in a world of constant evolution, the ancient Seven Wonders remain timeless beacons, drawing people from every walk of life to revel in their beauty and brilliance.

Ready to experience them for yourself?

Let us guide you through the seven most iconic and ancient places on earth, from what they are to where’s best to stay to enjoy them.

Read more: Browse the best sites to book your flights

The Seven Official Wonders of the World

1. The Great Pyramid of Giza

Photo: Pexels / Alex Azabache

The Great Pyramid of Giza, also known as the Pyramid of Khufu, stands as one of the most iconic and well-preserved structures from ancient Egypt.

Nestled on the Giza Plateau, close to Egypt's capital, Cairo, this architectural marvel is believed to have been constructed during the Fourth Dynasty of the Old Kingdom, between 2580 and 2560 BCE.

Commissioned by Pharaoh Khufu as his final resting place, the pyramid forms an integral part of a complex that encompasses two smaller pyramids dedicated to former queens and, of course, the world-famous Sphinx.

The Great Pyramid, steeped in speculation, has long since become an enigma for many historians and architects — namely for its mysteries surrounding construction, its internal passages and rumoured astronomical alignments.

But beyond its architectural brilliance, the Great Pyramid is an important symbol of Egypt's cultural heritage, representing the pinnacle of the ancient civilisation's accomplishments and legacy.

What better way to explore all the pyramids have to offer, than via a private tour?

This option includes your hotel pick up and drop off, onboard WiFi, lunch, water — and even a 20-minute camel ride.

Talk about a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.

If staying right in the action is your m.o. then this is the place for you.

Tucked in the historic area of Giza, the Pyramids View Inn is a mere 300 feet from the Pyramids: it's the perfect backdrop to your trip.

You can experience the awe-inspiring beauty of this ancient wonder, day and night.

2. The Hanging Gardens of Babylon

Photo: North Wind Picture Archives / Alamy

Step into the realm of ancient Babylon in modern-day Iraq, where the Hanging Gardens weave tales of mystery and splendour.

Built during the reign of King Nebuchadnezzar II around the year 600 BCE, the botanical wonder featured a series of terraced levels formed to resemble a green mountain rising from the desert.

Often associated with tales of romance, it is believed that the King built the marvel of flora for his homesick wife, who missed the green valleys and hills of her homeland.

While its existence is subject to some historical debate, the allure of the Gardens has persisted through the ages.

The legend surrounding it makes for a fascinating destination in the collective imagination — especially for those intrigued by the Seven Wonders.

Visiting Iraq opens you up to a world of rich culture and historical significance.

So while the Baron Hotel may be quite the distance from Babylon (24 miles to be exact) and there is no exact location of the gardens, taking a trip to the ancient city and beyond makes for an enriching experience.

Boasting 273 rooms, nine restaurants, a luxurious spa and a banquet hall that can seat up to 500, you can rest assured knowing you’re being taken good care of.

And, hey, if you plan on making a grand entrance, the hotel even has its own helipad.

How cool!

3. The Statue of Zeus at Olympia

Photo: National Gallery of Art / Philip Galle after Maerten van Heemskerck

Crafted by the renowned sculptor Phidias around 432 BCE, the Statue of Zeus depicted the King of the Greek Gods atop an ornate throne.

Holding immense cultural significance for the ancient Greek civilisation, it was not only a symbol of artistic achievement but also a main point for religious devotion and festivities in Olympia, where the Olympic Games originated.

Theories abound as to the statue’s fate, but it is largely speculated that it was destroyed in a fire in Constantinople (modern-day Istanbul) around 420 BCE.

But even though Zeus no longer stands, visiting the archaeological site in Olympia offers a glimpse into the artistic and cultural achievements of ancient Greece.

This tour will take you on a deep dive into ancient Greek history, walking you through the remains of gymnasiums, workshops and temples that have since been lost to time.

You’ll even have your hand at exploring the original Olympic stadium.

Just strike a pose and go for gold.

Just a stone’s throw away from ancient Olympia, this family-run hotel is at the heart of the local community, making for a wholesome retreat.

Each room is complete with comfy perks like an orthopaedic mattress, spacious balconies and even a special film on the ancient attractions of the area.

4. The Temple of Artemis

Photo: Stock / Sergii Figurnyi

Known for its colossal size, the Temple of Artemis was a meticulously designed structure dedicated to the Greek goddess Artemis, the goddess of the hunt.

Its construction was attributed to various architects, including Chersiphron and his son Metagenes.

The temple was a sacred site for worshipping Artemis and boasted embellishments, sculptures and works of art dedicated to the maiden.

Despite the Temple no longer standing, the site of Ephesus, including the Temple of Artemis, is now recognised as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and it’s free for visitors to explore (and gawk at) its wonderous ruins.

Avoid disappointment and be sure to book in advance. And, in our opinion, you’ll get a lot more out of your visit by adding a tour to your visit.

Starting at the Kusadasi Port, this tour will take you through Ephesus — the second-largest city of the ancient world — before moving on to the Temple of Artemis.

Included in your ticket is a group lunch with your tour mates at the Turkish Carpet Production Centre, where you’ll be immersed in the intricate art of Turkish carpentry.

A home away from home, the Akanthus Hotel is here to keep you comfy on your travels — not to mention it’s just down the road from the Temple itself.

With air conditioning in every room and free breakfast, you’ll be sure to enjoy every sun-soaked moment.

5. The Mausoleum at Halicarnassus

Photo: Getty Images / Dorling Kindersley

Built in Halicarnassus (modern-day Bodrum, Turkey) during the 4th century BCE, the monumental mausoleum was constructed for Persian satrap, Mausolus and his wife, Artemisia.

Designed by the Greek architects Satyros and Pythius, it showcased a cultural amalgamation of Greek, Egyptian and Lycian architectural styles.

Not only does it exemplify the grandeur and cultural exchange prevalent during the Hellenistic era, but it also reflects the cosmopolitan nature of Halicarnassus and the broader Mediterranean world.

Much like the other sites, the tomb no longer stands in its full glory. However, visiting the archaeological site provides a remarkable journey into the past.

It offers the chance to appreciate the architectural innovation, artistic achievements and historical context that still make it one of the Seven Wonders of the ancient World.

A short walk away from the UNESCO World Heritage Site, the Swan Lake Boutique Hotel offers you a peaceful, homely getaway.

After a long day on your toes, you’ll need somewhere ultra comfy to bunk down for the night.

Offering black-out curtains, soundproof rooms and extra-long beds, you’ll be catching more than 40 winks at the Swan Lake Hotel.

6. The Colossus of Rhodes

Photo: Historical Pictures Service

In the third century, the Colossus of Rhodes, a towering bronze statue depicting the Greek god Helios, stood at an impressive height of approximately 100 feet.

Adorned with detailed artistry, the Colossus showcased the skill of sculptor Chares of Lindos, symbolising Helios’ victory over a siege. Unfortunately, due to earthquakes and other natural disasters, the statue no longer stands — but this doesn’t stop Rhodes from being a beautiful site to behold.

An island that used to thrive as a bustling centre of commerce and culture, today is lauded for being a popular holiday destination for many a Brit.

So, why not pack your bags and enjoy a stay near the once-praised Colossus?

A prime distance away from beaches and the Colossus alike, the Via Villa offers a world of comfort and convenience after a long day on your feet.

Spend your days lounging by the sea and your nights in the Rhodian bliss of this stay, surrounded by century-old Fikous trees as you get your lounge on in the ancient Grecian world.

7. The Lighthouse of Alexandria

Photo: Fotolia / Sergey Kamshylin

The Lighthouse of Alexandria was an extraordinary structure that once stood on the small island of Pharos in the harbour of Alexandria, Egypt.

Built during the 3rd century BCE, the Lighthouse stood over 100 metres tall and served as a guiding beacon for sailors, using both mirrors and fire.

As such, Alexandria was a bustling centre of culture, education and trade.

Although the lighthouse is no longer standing, visiting the location provides a serene atmosphere for reflection on the historical significance of the lighthouse and its impact on ancient maritime culture.

Built in the early 20th century, the Windsor Palace Hotel is a historic waterfront gem in Alexandria.

From hand-decorated high ceilings and ornate decor to gorgeous sea views and a rooftop club lounge, the hotel stands as a symbol of Alexandria's heritage in a contemporary context, embodying the charm of the bygone era.

FAQs How many of the Seven Wonders of the world still exist? Unfortunately, the Great Pyramid of Giza is the only remaining original wonder standing at its full glory. The other six ancient wonders of the world have either succumbed to the wrath of time or, like the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, have had their existence questioned for centuries. Are there new World Wonders? Yes, a new set of seven wonders emerged in 2007, all boasting UNESCO World Heritage Site recognition. Among them are the Great Wall of China; Machu Picchu in Peru — high in the Andes Mountains; the Taj Mahal in India; Petra in Jordan; the Colosseum in Italy; Christ the Redeemer in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; and Chichén Itzá in Mexico. Who chose the Wonders, old and new? Now, you might be asking, ‘Who chose the Seven Wonders of the World’? Well, the original wonders were chosen by ancient Hellenic travellers on their journeys through Persia, Babylon and Egypt. As for the new wonders, they were chosen through an online contest hosted by Swiss Company, ‘The New 7 Wonders Foundation’, where tens of millions of people voted. So who knows — maybe you had a part in the decision?! How can I decide what order to visit the world's Seven Wonders? There’s nothing like a grand road trip. And with this many cross-continental destinations, you understandably want the best route with sans faff. Our advice is to try and stick to one continent at a time. For the ancient wonders, start in Europe with Italy and Greece, then move along to West Asia for Turkey and Iraq. Finish up your trip in Egypt and you’ll end your tour with the last fully-standing site. Likewise, if you’re touring the new stops, we recommend starting in Italy, before moving to Jordan. Then head to India and China. You’ll end your trip in Latin America, visiting Mexico and Peru before finishing up in Brazil. And for those super-adventurers who want to see all 14 wonders, our advised order is Italy then Greece, Turkey, Egypt, Jordan, Iraq, India, China, Mexico, Peru and finally Brazil.

Which of the Seven Wonders would we prioritise?

Now that you know what the Seven ancient Wonders of the World are — and that only one remains in all its glory — it won’t surprise you that it’s the Pyramids we would prioritise visiting.

And, having finally made the trip to the wondrous location, we would definitely invest in a private tour and even look to stay nearby at the Pyramids View Inn.

After all, who wouldn’t want to wake up to such a magnificent sight?

Did you like this article? For more great deals and shopping ideas, find us now on your favourite social networks: Facebook, Instagram and Pinterest!

Prices updated on 13/02/2024. We are not responsible for any changes to the prices mentioned above.