Gary Neville has hailed Sir Jim Ratcliffe and INEOS for their 'staggering' impact at Manchester United - claiming they are responsible for the squad's 'new energy' and 'change in mood'.

Ratcliffe's 25 per cent stake in Manchester United is set to be officially confirmed next week as INEOS have received Premier League approval and are now awaiting the final nod from the Football Association before the formalities of the deal are completed.

Ratcliffe and INEOS will be responsible for football operations at the Premier League club going forwards and revealed their plans to turn Old Trafford into the 'Wembley of the North'.

Neville is excited about the direction the club is heading in and says the arrival of Ratcliffe has created competition within the squad, forcing the players to fight for their 'futures' at the club.

Neville says the competition on the training ground has helped enhance their match-day performances with the Red Devils winning seven of their nine games following Ratcliffe's association with the club.

Gary Neville has hailed Sir Jim Ratcliffe and INEOS for their 'staggering' impact at Manchester United - claiming they are being the squad's 'new energy' and 'change in mood'

Rasmus Hojlund bagged a brace in the first 10 minutes of the fixture on Sunday afternoon

Your browser does not support iframes.

Neville's comments came shortly after Manchester United beat Luton Town 2-1, with Rasmus Hojlund bagging a brace in the first 10 minutes of the fixture on Sunday afternoon.

Speaking after the game at Kenilworth Road, Neville said: 'The turn in Manchester United's fortunes has coincided at the point where Jim Ratcliffe came in.

'I think it might be a little bit of a coincidence. You remember than second 45 minutes against Aston Villa on Boxing Day which damaged Villa.

'Unai Emery will really be damaged by the two Manchester United games because they played really well in both games. They hammered United in the first half.

'United were breathtaking in that second half, that was Jim Ratcliffe's first game as it were as he'd been announced on Christmas Eve. It has been an about turn.

'I think what Jim Ratcliffe has done, he's come in and said to all of them, I'm looking at every single one of you lot. You're all playing for your future.'

He went on to add: 'They have got the players back, Casemiro was out for a long time, they had players out in key positions, so there was an element of that but I do believe the mood has changed.

'What the fans wanted, what everyone connected with United was just some interference with the complete and utter tosh that we've seen for 10 years.

'What's happened is the boardroom has been disrupted, which means there's a complete new energy with decisions being made.'

Neville is excited about the direction the club is heading in and says the arrival of Ratcliffe has created competition within the squad, forcing the players to fight for their 'futures' at the club

Neville says the competition on the training ground has helped enhance their match-day performances with the Red Devils winning seven of their nine games following his association

However, Neville did say their change in form can be regarded as 'a little bit of a coincidence' given injured players - such as Casemiro - have returned to the squad

The Sky Sports pundit went on to discuss the vibe around the club, saying: 'I do believe the mood has changed.

'What the fans, what everyone connected with Manchester United wanted, was some interference with the complete and utter tosh that we've seen for 10 years.

'The board room has been disrupted which means there's a complete new energy with decisions that are being made. How long have been asking for a CEO that knows football, a sporting director, a sporting department? I can shut up about it now!'

'When you think for 10 years every Manchester United manager has operated without a CEO that's actually been in a football club before, without a sporting director, without a head of recruitment. It's madness, forget negligence, it's just madness. It would never happen at any other club.

'The more I think about it, what the Glazers have done is show blind loyalty to people who have been really good to them over a long period of time at the club.

'Ed Woodward was at the club for 10-12 years before he became CEO, he was working on the commercial side. They've been very loyal to him and believed everything he said. I'm sure Ed believed in what he was doing as well.

'I said it probably 10 years ago, it was like they were playing Football Manager. They can go and have a look at some of the best players in the world.

'[Angel] Di Maria, [Radamel] Falcao, [Zlatan] Ibrahimovic and they played Football Manager with the club for 10 years without having serious people operating the club, which other clubs have. It's unbelievable.'

Ratcliffe (pictured above) and INEOS want best-in-class appointments in influential positions

This isn't the first time the Sky Sports pundit has praised Ratcliffe's involvement at Manchester United. Neville told the Stick To Football podcast, via United in Focus, the his arrival was a step in the right direction.

'I'm not saying that he's going to go into Manchester United and be successful but if you've got the guy in from City which obviously they have now, you brought Dan Ashworth in, at least you've got people in roles that belong. In the last 10 years, there haven't been people in roles that belong, so there's a start of something.

'Look there's disruption there's interference with the mediocrity that we've seen in the last 10 years already if he comes in I do think there's a chance that you know you've got that sort of performance mentality that excellence mentality that they do have that could run through the club quite quickly.

'I've no doubt no Jim Ratcliffe is obviously trusting in Dave Brailsford, to say look you know basically we need the best CEO the best sporting director the best head of Recruitment and the best coach.

'The two that have got yet to be sorted are the head of Recruitment and Coach but they're doing it one by one obviously aren't they, you know if Dan comes he'll want I suspect authority at the club to be able to make decisions.'

Ratcliffe wants to change the culture, focusing on recruits who are ideally British and who fit into a longer-term plan for success rather than being quick fixes.

In so doing, he'll hope United can make up the ground they have ceded to the likes of Manchester City, Liverpool and Arsenal, whose recruitment has coherence and direction.

To accomplish this, Ratcliffe and INEOS want best-in-class appointments in influential positions.

Ratcliffe has already pulled off one coup by poaching chief executive Omar Berrada from City

Newcastle's Dan Ashworth is the next target to become the new sporting director

They've already pulled off one coup in poaching the highly-regarded Omar Berrada from rivals City to become their new chief executive. But fans will be more interested in the recruitment side.

If United get their way, it looks like Dan Ashworth will come in as sporting director, with Jason Wilcox and Sam Jewell reporting in to him in an overhauled scouting and recruitment department.

Getting Ashworth, 52, who is currently Newcastle's sporting director would undoubtedly be another impressive appointment by the new United regime.

As Mail Sport reported earlier this week, Ashworth is keen to take on the challenge and an agreement could soon be reached, smoothed by the fact Newcastle's Saudi owners haven't given him the broad remit he anticipated.