Amelia Windsor looked pretty in pink this morning as she arrived at London Fashion Week to attend the Bora Aksu show.

The royal, 28, opted for a baby pink satin dress with multiple layers and frills, plus diamante detailing and bows.

She accessorised with gold chain bracelets and gold rings, which she showed off as she held out the skirt of her dress for all to see.

Amelia, who is 43rd in line to the throne, is something of a fashionista and has worked as a model - while also venturing into the fashion world by designing some jewellery lines.

Amelia's appearance at the LFW show saw the royal opting for modest dressing - following a hilarious skit she filmed for a sustainable underwear company earlier this month.

Lady Amelia Windsor (pictured) looked pretty in pink in a satin dress and white trainers at the Bora Asku show

On her Instagram, Lady Amelia - who is the granddaughter of Prince Edward, Duke of Kent - posted a video of herself stepping out of a front door wearing nothing but a black t-shirt, red underwear, scarf and trainers.

The video opens with Amelia stepping out of a front door and shutting it behind her.

She then tosses her scarf over her shoulder before walking down the steps to the camera.

The pair of underwear of have 'Monday' written on the front - as Amelia promoted the brand's days of the week offerings.

The model, who is 43rd in line to the throne, is often spotted in the front row at fashion events

Amelia captioned the playful promotion: 'Start the week off right [with] Stripe and Stare.

'The comfiest and softest undies made from Tencel Modal wood based fibres that are fully biodegradable'

Amelia then ended the post by offering her 102,000 followers a personalised discount code.

Stripe and Stare's 'Days of the Week' underwear - which is made of 95% biodegradable TENCEL - retail for £100 for a pack of eight.

The post amassed hundreds of comments from Amelia's followers - with many praising the cheeky advert.

One replied: 'Yesss Meels! Obsessed with my Stripe & Stare pantalons.'

Another added: 'How very brave during these cold winter days. Looking stunning in these gorgeous undies.'

'Try not to catch a gold,' a third concerned follower said. 'She is the moment,' a fourth gushed.