In the world of photography, objects in the foreground tend to be the main focus.

But, every now and then, it's the background that becomes centre stage, stealing the show with unexpected humour.

Bored Panda has curated an impressive collection of photos from around the world that highlight these background gems, where animals become unlikely comedians or strangers master the art of intentional photobombing.

These instances turn ordinary snapshots into memorable moments, proving that the real magic sometimes happens behind the scenes.

Happy as Harry! The Duke of Sussex let his silly side show as he stuck his tongue out behind two Invictus Games workers in this snap taken in Toronto

Wait a minute! A mischievous photobomber in Brazil decided it's time to 'redeem' this shot with some unexpected charm

From a mischievous horse disrupting a serene landscape to a stranger adding an unexpected twist to an unsuspecting photo, these backgrounds showcase plenty of surprises.

And for one really lucky photographer, their snap got a surprise touch of royalty.

The cheeky Duke of Sussex struck a pose in the background of the photo, taken at the Invictus Games.

I do! While saying their vowsat the Mystic Aquarium in Connecticut, this happy couple were photobombed by a very curious beluga whale.

Horsing around! This couple was all smiles for the camera, but they didn't realise a horse would steal the show and pull a silly face behind them.

Flying by! One train driver threw an arm out the window of his vehicle, which appeared to be in Alaska, as he drove behind a woman posing for a snap

Pawsitively mischievous! This adorable baby was caught in the act of morphing into a little cat

Say cheese! In one hilarious snap, a little boy completed the perfect photobomb by rubbing his nose against a window behind a woman

All smiles! A very happy stingray appeared to be grinning for the camera as it leapt out of the water behind a couple in the sea in Grand Cayman

Stealing the show! As one woman struck a glamorous pose in front of a stunning building, a child stuck his tongue out and put his thumbs up to ensure all eyes were on him

Joining in! A cyclist was caught up in a group of motorbike riders in The Netherlands which resulted in a hilarious photobomb

He's behind you! One very happy dog was photobombed by another, who pulled numerous faces behind the other's back

It's been a long day! While talking on a US news channel, one presenter's dog was caught taking a quick nap on his little sofa bed

To infinity and beyond! This mother was photobombed by her other daughter who decided to strike a pose while jumping into the lake

Plot twist! When the black cat watches the doggy drama unfold, because sometimes being mysterious is just more entertaining

Who said saving lives can't be fabulous? A lifeguard nails the perfect pose at Disney's Typhoon Lagoon

Equestrian excellence! This foal couldn't resist pushing itself into the frame

You've got mail! This cat seems to know the joy of a hidden package delivery