Read more: Single woman goes on 50 first dates in hopes of finding a partner

A group of Aussie friends have helped out a single mate by creating the 'perfect' Hinge profile voice note.

Harry Fitzgerald, 31, from Perth, is looking for love and seven friends got creative to spike his number of potential matches with a 30-second pitch.

Josh Garlepp, 34, thought of the idea to devise an intense yet hilarious housefire scene, which had to be recorded in real time as users can't upload pre-recorded voice memos.

Two laptops, nine speakers, a ring light, keyboard, whiteboard and a toy baby were required and it was all carried out at home.

Harry acted as though he was saving a baby from a burning home, all while sharing fun facts about himself. A TikTok video showed how it all came together and the end result left him with more than 100 messages.

Josh Garlepp (left), Giorgio Savini (right) and five other Aussie friends got creative to make Harry Fitzgerald (centre) the best voice memo for Hinge

Josh thought of the idea to devise an intense yet hilarious housefire scene, which had to be recorded in real time as uses can't upload pre-recorded voice memos

The clever tactic was a hit with the ladies with one saying she was 'blown away' by the effort and another rating the voice prompt '10/10'.

In the clip, Harry can be seen holding his phone in one hand and a speaker in the other then says: 'So a daily essential for me is having a dip in the ocean'.

The next second his friend yells: 'Help! My baby's in that burning building!

'What? Where? OMG I'm on it!' Harry responds and jumps into action while his other mates operate the sound effects.

'It's so hot, like Italy because I love to travel.'

The sound of flames and a cat can be heard in the background and Harry says: 'Aww a cat, I'm more of a dog person.'

Even the crashing sound of a collapsing ceiling doesn't phase him because he described himself as a 'handyman' who will 'fit it later'.

After rescuing the toy baby the friend said: 'Thank you, you're such a catch.

To which Harry responds: 'You're welcome, cheers. Anyway, so I love getting outdoors...'

As soon as the skit was flawlessly completed the group instantly celebrated and jumped up and down.

As soon as the skit was flawlessly completed the group instantly celebrated and jumped up and down

The clever tactic was a hit with the ladies with one saying she was 'blown away' by the effort and another rating the voice prompt '10/10'

The end result left Harry with more than 100 messages

Many wondered how long it took to create the flawless voice note

The friends admitted they didn't expect the voice memo to do so well

'This is the most chaotic thing I've ever heard,' one more wrote

The friends said they didn't expect the voice memo to do so well, but admitted it took a couple weeks to rake up the matches.

'Josh had recently been broken up with but always found voice memos hilarious on Hinge,' the friends told FEMAIL.

'While he wasn't dating Harry volunteered as tribute to give it a crack because we all found the idea funny.'

And the responses spoke for themselves.

'Harry, I'm sure you get this a lot but honestly 10/10 voice prompt, blown away,' one woman wrote.

'This is way too good, I'm actually crying. How long did this take you?' another asked.

'I don't listen to many of the voice prompts, but I'm glad I listened to yours,' a third said.

Someone else joked: 'Wait so you burnt down a building for Hinge?'

'I just want to acknowledge the effort that went into this,' another added.

'This is the most chaotic thing I've ever heard,' one more wrote.

While the effort sparked an immediate reaction from women, Harry is still single - for now.

Josh, Harry and their other mate Giorgio Savini also host the sporting podcast Kick It Forward.