Formula One called for Red Bull to clarify Horner's future as soon as possible

Formula One’s owners tonight called for Christian Horner’s future as Red Bull team principal to be ‘clarified at the earliest opportunity’.

The 50-year-old’s role has been in the balance since he was accused of ‘inappropriate behaviour’ earlier this month, allegations that escalated when the Dutch newspaper, De Telegraaf, claimed on Friday that he was also answering charges of a sexual nature.

Horner denies the claims emphatically, and also wants a quick verdict.

He insisted at Red Bull’s car launch in Milton Keynes last Thursday that he will be at the opening race in Bahrain on March 2.

F1, owned by American conglomerate Liberty Media, said: ‘We have noted that Red Bull have instigated an independent investigation into internal allegations at Red Bull Racing.

F1 has called for Christian Horner's Red Bull future to be 'clarified at the earliest opportunity'

Horner - who is married to former Spice Girl Geri Halliwell - is fighting to save his career after allegations of 'inappropriate behaviour' were made against him. He denies the allegations

‘We hope that the matter will be clarified at the earliest opportunity, after a fair and thorough process, and we will not comment further at this time.’

Nobody involved in the investigation will put a timeframe on the process, which is being conducted by a King’s Counsel, an external arbitrator brought in by parent company, Red Bull GmBH, the energy drinks company that began out in F1 in 2005.

Testing begins in Bahrain on Wednesday, and Horner is again due to be there.

A source told Mail Sport that the barrister’s report is or close to being completed; another saying, in contrast, that an adjudication will not be out before Friday at the earliest.

Those findings will go to the Red Bull board for their decision on Horner’s position.

Speaking at the launch of Red Bull's car for the new season, Horner said he was going nowhere

Figures in the sport are split on the likelihood of Horner remaining in post, about 50-50 as of Sunday night.

Horner has been the architect of remarkable success: 13 world titles, drivers’ and constructors’ championships, led by Sebastian Vettel and Max Verstappen.