Olivia Culpo and her fellow San Francisco 49ers wives and girlfriends put the team's nail-biter loss at Super Bowl LVIII behind them when they enjoyed some fun in the sun at a beach in Mexico on Sunday.

The 31-year-old beauty — and fiancée to 49ers running back Christian McCaffrey — was joined by fellow WAGS Claire Kittle and Kristin Juszczyk as they showed off their stellar bikini bodies in the sand and surf of Cabo San Lucas.

Olivia set the temperatures soaring with a brilliant white halter bikini, while her friends favored more colorful designs.

The group looked as if they were having the time of their lives, without any hint of the 49ers devastating loss the Kansas City Chiefs, who triumphed 25–22 in a shocking overtime session.

Olivia, Claire and Kristin were also joined for their day at the beach by husbands George Kittle - a tight end for the 49ers - and Kyle Juszczyk - a running back for the 49ers.

The men were also seen hanging out with NFL great Peyton Manning.

Olivia Culpo and her fellow San Francisco 49ers wives and girlfriends put the team's nail-biter loss at Super Bowl LVIII behind them when they enjoyed some fun in the sun at a beach in Mexico on Sunday. The 31-year-old beauty was joined by fellow WAGS Claire Kittle and Kristin Juszczyk as they showed off their stellar bikini bodies in the sand and surf of Cabo San Lucas

Olivia Culpo set the temperatures soaring with a brilliant white halter bikini. The look featured ruched cups and matching string bottoms that highlighted her stellar figure

Olivia Culpo stood out on the beautiful beach thanks to her brilliant white halter bikini.

The look featured ruched cups and matching string bottoms that highlighted her stellar figure, and she added a touch of color to the monochrome look with her crimson-painted nails.

Claire complemented her with a lovely orange cream two-piece swimsuit.

It featured thin, knotted straps and a more supportive bra-like top that tied at the back, along with a high-cut thong bottom.

The raven-haired beauty looked effortlessly cool with a pair of aviator sunglasses, and she wore her hair back in a ponytail before tying it up in a bun after taking a dip in the Pacific Ocean.

Kristin, who has differentiated herself from her fellow WAGS by becoming an in-demand designer of sports attire, wore a piercing white bikini that matched Olivia's beach look.

It also featured a halter string top, but it was decorated with metal rings, and the brunette team wife draped matching gold chains decorated with charms from it to emphasize her hourglass figure.

Although Olivia can often be spotted at high-profile fashion shows with an impeccably made-up visage, she opted for a more muted look for the beach vacation, as did Claire and Kristin.

Claire complemented her with a lovely orange cream two-piece swimsuit. It featured thin, knotted straps and a more supportive bra-like top that tied at the back, along with a high-cut thong bottom

Kristin wore a piercing white bikini that matched Olivia's beach look. It also featured a halter string top, but was decorated with metal rings, and the brunette team wife draped matching gold chains decorated with charms from it to emphasize her hourglass figure

Olivia was joined by her fiancé Christian McCaffrey (not pictured). Claire and Kristin were also joined for their day at the beach by husbands George Kittle and Kyle Juszczyk; (L–R) Kyle Juszczyk, his wife Kristin, George Kittle, Olivia Culpo and Claire Kittle

The group looked as if they were having the time of their lives, without any hint of the 49ers devastating loss the Kansas City Chiefs, who triumphed 25–22 in a shocking overtime session

The former Miss Universe proved her beach attire was on point during some downtime in the shade.

She showed off an elegant sheer cream-colored robe that was decorated with undulating stripes, before changing into a matching pair of sporty shorts.

Olivia added some luxury to her home base with a large black quilted Yves Saint Laurent handbag.

She joked about how she and her fellow wives and girlfriends were holding up in a hilarious TikTok from earlier in the day.

Olivia was joined by Claire and Kristin at a beachside bar with a straw roof as they sipped on tropical cocktails to unwind while humorously musing about their men's Super Bowl loss.

'I would give the pain a 10,' Kristin lip synced to preexisting audio, while Olivia captioned the clip: 'If you're wondering how we're holding up.'

Olivia and Kristin then took over the lip sync, sharing the line: ''A lot of people tell you it's not that bad and things like that, but me personally, it hurted really, really, really, really, really, really bad [sic].'

The model was seen supporting her fiancé Christian, who wore green Nike swim trunks and covered up with a black button-up shirt at one point.

Olivia joked about how she and her fellow wives and girlfriends were holding up in a hilarious TikTok from earlier in the day

She wore her brunette locks tied into a casual bun

But she let her hair down as she covered up

The former Miss Universe proved her beach attire was on point during some downtime in the shade. She showed off an elegant sheer cream-colored robe that was decorated with undulating stripes, before changing into a matching pair of sporty shorts

Olivia put on a sweet display as she held hands with her fiancé Christian

He wore green Nike swim trunks and covered up with a black button-up shirt at one point

She joked about how she and her fellow wives and girlfriends were holding up in a hilarious TikTok from earlier in the day

Olivia was joined by Claire and Kristin at a beachside bar with a straw roof as they sipped on tropical cocktails to unwind while humorously musing about their men's Super Bowl loss; Claire pictured

'I would give the pain a 10,' Kristin lip synced to preexisting audio, while Olivia captioned the clip: 'If you're wondering how we're holding up;' Kristin pictured

Olivia was famous well before her relationship with the 49ers running back began.

The social media star had already been crowned Miss Rhode Island in 2012, and she followed that up with a stunning Miss Universe win later that year, making her the eighth person from the US to win and the first Rhode Islander to claim the title

She followed the successes up by launching a successful modeling career.

She and Christian have been together since 2019, when he played for the Carolina Panthers, and she subsequently took his 2022 trade to San Francisco in stride.

'I'm so proud of you Christian! Seeing your light shine is one of my favorite things in life and I'm beyond excited and grateful for this next chapter in Cali, the place I've called home for the last 8 years,' she gushed on Instagram when the news first broke.

After four years together, Olivia and Christian signaled they were ready for the next level when they got engaged in April of 2023.

The two were vacationing at the exclusive Amangiri resort in Utah — where Kourtney Kardashian recently revealed she conceived her youngest son Rocky with husband Travis Barker just over a year ago — when Christian took a knee and asked Olivia to be his wife.

'We tried to keep this quiet for as long as possible but apparently word travels fast,' she wrote in a joint Instagram post announcing the news. 'I'm marrying my best friend, I love you so much, fiancé.'

Claire looked as if she was having a great time while splashing around in the sea

Kristin could be seen having a heart-to-heart in the water with her husband Kyle. He sported a well-maintained beard and wore a red swimsuit

Olivia's rise to fame began with being crowned Miss Rhode Island in 2012, and she followed that up with a stunning Miss Universe win later that year, making her the eighth person from the US to win and the first Rhode Islander to claim the title

She followed the successes up by launching a successful modeling career

Olivia has been dating Christian since 2019. She took his 2022 trade to San Francisco in stride

The lovebirds got engaged in April 2023 at the exclusive Amangiri Resort in Utah

'We tried to keep this quiet for as long as possible but apparently word travels fast,' she wrote in a joint Instagram post announcing the news. 'I'm marrying my best friend, I love you so much, fiancé'

Claire and her husband, 49ers tight end George Kittle, began as college sweethearts after meeting at the University of Iowa.

The personal trainer dated the football star for six years before he popped the question in 2018.

They weren't ones to wait, so they decided to elope before putting on a second larger ceremony for friends and family in April 2021.

Now they live in Nashville, Tennessee, during the off season, and the lovebirds share a puppy named Deenie who is a Bernedoodle, a mix of a Bernese Mountain Dog with a Poodle.

Kristin has established herself as a fashion designer to watch in recent years.

She tied the knot with 49ers fullback Kyle Juszczyk back in 2019, after dating since 2014 and getting engaged in 2017.

His 2017 move from the Baltimore Ravens to the 49ers coincided with her taking a break from real estate sales to try out her creative instincts.

In 2018, she founded the fashion label Origin, and in recent years she established herself as a designer of buzzy custom ensembles created for other WAGs.

Claire (R) and her husband, 49ers tight end George Kittle, began as college sweethearts after meeting at the University of Iowa

The personal trainer dated the football star for six years before he popped the question in 2018

They weren't ones to wait, so they decided to elope before putting on a second larger ceremony for friends and family in April 2021

The group seen after taking a dip in the water

Olivia and Claire chatted in the water while cooling down together

Kristin has established herself as a fashion designer to watch in recent years

She tied the knot with 49ers fullback Kyle Juszczyk back in 2019, after dating since 2014 and getting engaged in 2017; from left to right: Kyle, Kristin, George, Olivia

His 2017 move from the Baltimore Ravens to the 49ers coincided with her taking a break from real estate sales to try out her creative instincts

In 2018, she founded the fashion label Origin, and in recent years she established herself as a designer of buzzy custom ensembles created for other WAGs

Her career got a major boost last yea when Taylor Swift wore one of her custom jackets after Brittany Mahomes — who had one of her own — contacted her to have one made for the pop star

Taylor was a major source of interest leading up to the Super Bowl due to her romance with Chiefs tight end Travis Kelce

Kristin wasn't concerned that Taylor was supporting the opposing team at the big game, and her choice to wear the jacket raised the 49ers wife's profile even more

She has also dressed the Twilight star Taylor Lautner and the Olympic gymnast Simone Biles, and after scoring a licensing deal with the NFL in January of this year, things are likely only going up for her

Claire and George pictured with Christian and Olivia

Kristin (wearing one of her creations) posing with Claire on January 28 at the San Francisco 49ers game against the Detroit Lions

Her career got a major boost last year when Taylor Swift wore one of her custom jackets after Brittany Mahomes — who had one of her own — contacted her to have one made for the pop star. Taylor and Brittany pictured in their custom jackets by Kristin

Her career got a major boost last year when Taylor Swift wore one of her custom jackets after Brittany Mahomes — who had one of her own — contacted her to have one made for the pop star.

Taylor was a major source of interest leading up to the Super Bowl due to her romance with Chiefs tight end Travis Kelce.

Kristin wasn't concerned that Taylor was supporting the opposing team at the big game, and her choice to wear the jacket raised the 49ers wife's profile even more.

She has also dressed the Twilight star Taylor Lautner and the Olympic gymnast Simone Biles, and after scoring a licensing deal with the NFL in January of this year, things are likely only going up for her.