Back in 2012 - just three years after being relegated from the Premier League - Newcastle finished fifth in the top flight to secure a return to European football.

It was a seismic achievement for the club who had been floundering under owner Mike Ashley for years, but backing it up was always going to be a challenge with such a thin squad.

Magpies boss Alan Pardew needed to dip into the transfer market to bolster his team, and with the help of chief scout Graham Carr - father of comedian Alan Carr - Newcastle opted for a French Revolution.

Having brought in Romain Amalfitano from Stade Reims in July 2012, Newcastle fully committed to their French project in the following January window by bringing in no fewer than five players from Ligue 1.

In came Moussa Sissoko, Mathieu Debuchy, Yoan Gouffran, Massadio Haidara and centre back Mapou Yanga-Mbiwa.

Mapou Yanga-Mbiwa (back right) was part of Newcastle's French revolution during 2013

He signed for £7m after winning Ligue 1 with Montpellier a little over six months earlier

However, he recently turned his back on football, having left Lyon more than three years ago

Not a great deal was known about the quintet as they arrived in England, but Yanga-Mbiwa was viewed as an exciting prospect, having won Ligue 1 with Montpellier a little over six months earlier.

He had also made his France debut in September 2012, and landing a 23-year-old international for £7m midway through the season looked like good business for Newcastle.

Yanga-Mbiwa swiftly went into Newcastle's starting XI and guided the team away from the threat of relegation after a difficult start to the season, with Pardew's men finishing five points clear of the bottom three.

Could he build on his early promise?

Not really. Yanga-Mbiwa made 23 league appearances in his first full season at St James' Park but struggled to consistently hold down a spot in the side.

Newcastle finished in mid-table, but Yanga-Mbiwa had started to fall down the pecking order, and he was shipped out on loan to Serie A outfit Roma in September 2014.

Four months later, the move was made permanent, as the French defender departed Tyneside after playing just 46 times for Newcastle.

His time in Rome saw him play Champions League football, and he even clashed with Barcelona's Lionel Messi during a pre-season friendly, but it proved to be a short-lived stay in the Italian capital.

Yanga-Mbiwa spent one year in Serie A where he played for Italian giants Roma

He clashed with Lionel Messi during a pre-season friendly in one of his last games for Roma

Less than a year after joining the club, he was sold to Lyon.

Returning to his homeland to play for one of France's top clubs, it appeared Yanga-Mbiwa had a real opportunity to kickstart his career once more.

And he featured regularly in his first two seasons, with Lyon finishing second and fourth, respectively, in Ligue 1.

But after making just two appearances in the first half of the 2017-18 season, Yanga-Mbiwa missed out on the squad for the majority of the campaign, and he was just limited to a handful of reserve games as he saw out the final days of his contract before walking away from the sport in 2020.

His last senior outing came in November 2017, and that looked to be the last we would ever see of Yanga-Mbiwa on a football pitch.

Until now.

Yanga-Mbiwa moved to Lyon in 2015, and they finished second to PSG in his first season

He featured regularly for the team in his first two seasons, but then fell out of favour

Yanga-Mbiwa played his final senior game for Lyon in 2017, but stayed until his contract expired in 2020

Aged 34, he has made a shock comeback by signing for French fifth division club Istres.

The little-known team are based in southern France, and once played in Ligue 1 in 2004-05, only to be relegated after just one season.

They last featured in Ligue 2 in 2014, but were relegated all the way down to the seventh tier due to financial issues the following year.

They have since started to work their way back up, and have done enough to tempt Yanga-Mbiwa to put his boots back on.

Explaining his decision to effectively come out of retirement after seven years away from senior football, Yanga-Mbiwa said: 'The project is interesting and I wanted to get back into the field. I will bring my experience and pass it on to young people.'

When asked what he had been doing to keep himself busy in recent years, he added: 'After Lyon, I rested and enjoyed my family and friends'.

Yanga-Mbiwa went straight into Istres' starting line-up on Saturday when they picked up a 2-0 away win at Lucciana.

Yanga-Mbiwa's Instagram suggests the defender has kept himself in good condition in recent years

He has now returned to play in France's fifth division for Istres after seven years away from senior football

That victory means Istres are now four points clear at the top of the Championnat National 3 Group A table with a game in hand on their closest rivals.

Yanga-Mbiwa could now be pivotal to their promotion push, as they aim to move back towards France's top divisions.

It has been some journey for Yanga-Mbiwa, from becoming a Ligue 1 champion at 23, to playing in the Premier League, Serie A and the Champions League, only to disappear when most players would be entering their prime.

But he is back, and now has the chance to prove he still has plenty left to offer.