David Tennant recently returned to Doctor Who for a trio of specials to celebrate the show's 60th Anniversary - 18 years after first joining the show.

The actor, 52, who originally played the part of the Time Lord from 2005 to 2010 and returned for a 2015 special, has the show to thank for his fame and acclaim.

But the series has also played a much bigger role in David's life as the Sci-Fi introduced him to his wife, Georgia, through a rather spooky connection.

The couple, who remain relatively quiet about their family life, have now been married for 13 years and share five children.

MailOnline takes a look at their relationship; from their first meeting, to becoming the parents of five kids.

David Tennant is best known for his role on Doctor Who, but the series also introduced him to his wife, Georgia, through a rather spooky connection (pictured in 2018)

Here, MailOnline takes a look at their relationship; from their first meeting, to becoming the parents of five kids

When did they meet?

In November, Doctor Who star David revealed how the BBC show led to his marriage with Georgia Moffett.

The couple met in 2008, when Georgia starred in the BBC hit series Doctor Who, as she took on the role of David's character's genetically engineered daughter Jenny, and they married three years later.

Georgia is the daughter of former fifth Doctor Peter Davison, 72, who played the iconic role from 1981 until 1984.

David later admitted he 'felt a bit stupid' marrying his wife Georgia, given she's the daughter of a former Doctor Who star, but she was relentless in her affections.

The actor, who himself played the titular Time Lord from 2005 to 2010 later joked they're an 'unlikely partnership' due to their 14-year age gap.

David and Georgia offered insight into their marriage during a rare joint interview, with the actress describing herself as a 'stalker' due to her non-stop attempts to woo him.

Discussing their romance on That Gaby Roslin Podcast, Georgia said: 'I very much forced it into happening, didn't I?' before joking she was determined to woo the actor and kept pursuing him until he gave in.

David then added: 'That makes it sound like I was resistant, which was not what happened. I thought we were an unlikely life partnership, I suppose. There is a bit of an age gap.

'Because Doctor Who had run through my life like a stick of rock, to end up marrying the daughter of one of the Doctors, it all felt a bit stupid... that wasn't really likely to happen. So there were a lot of things against it.'

Peter said of his daughter’s relationship with David ‘It’s great because David is a genuinely nice guy.

'I’m delighted Georgia has found happiness because she hasn’t always had an easy life.’

David revealed how the BBC show led to his marriage with Georgia Moffett when she starred on the hit series as his character's genetically engineered daughter Jenny

Georgia is the daughter of former fifth Doctor Peter Davison, 72, who played the iconic role from 1981 until 1984 (pictured in 1981)

Engagement and wedding

David and Georgia became engaged over Christmas 2010 and married in a low-key ceremony on New Years Eve 2011.

Before the wedding, a friend said: ‘David and Georgia can’t wait to get married, they are madly in love.

‘They have tried to keep everything quiet and the wedding is for family and closest friends only.’

The couple celebrated their tenth wedding anniversary in 2021 by sharing a rare glimpse into their nuptials with an unseen snap.

The actress took to Instagram to share the sweet photo of the newlyweds and their son, Ty Tennant at the altar after exchanging their vows.

In the image the actress could be seen in her wedding dress complete with veil, alongside David who wore a black suit.

Alongside the adorable photo Georgia penned: 'The happiest day followed by the happiest life. Thanks DT.'

She added the hashtag, 'tenwithten' a cheeky reference to David's role as the tenth incarnation of the titular Time Lord in Doctor Who.

David and Georgia became engaged over Christmas 2010 and married in a low-key ceremony on New Years Eve 2011

Before the wedding, a friend said: ‘David and Georgia can’t wait to get married, they are madly in love' (pictured in 2020)

Children and family life

At the time of their wedding Georgia already had a nine-year-old son called Tyler whom she gave birth to in 2002, when she was just 17.

She brought him up alone and has never publicly revealed who the father is.

David later adopted Ty, 21, and they went onto welcome their first daughter, Olive, in 2011.

A friend announced the news and revealed to MailOnline at the time: ‘Georgia and David could not be happier, Olive is beautiful and their families are over the moon.’

‘They did very well in keeping everything very nearly private and keeping things under wraps. Georgia was a lot more pregnant than people thought when the news first broke.’

The couple share, Olive, 12, Doris, seven, and Birdie, four, and a son, Wilfred, ten.

Ty has followed in his father and mother's footsteps, starring as Tom in H. G. Wells' War of The Worlds and House Of The Dragon - the hugely popular prequel to Game Of Thrones.

He played an older version of Aegon Targaryen, the son of King Viserys and Alicent Hightower who viewers first saw as a toddler in episode three.

The talented teenager has also appeared in Casualty, and made his big screen debut with the role of young Christopher Wisemanin 2019's Tolkien.

Wilfred has also made his television acting debut in BBC soap Casualty as he burst onto the screen asking for a doctor in 2022.

The budding star, nine, followed in the footsteps of his mum Georgia, who starred on the show in 2007 and his older brother Ty, who appeared on the drama in 2020.

Wilfred took on the role of Joey Parker, a little boy who wanders into the Holby City Hospital looking for some help for his pet gerbil, Rory.

Taking to Twitter, Georgia, 37, re-shared a Tweet from his acting agent Sarah Camlett, who wrote: 'So proud of this glorious young person's TV debut. The Future Is Bright. #WilfredTennant,' alongside a photo of the credits.

David adopted Georgia's son, Ty, 21, from a previous relationship, with them also sharing Olive, 12, Doris, seven, and Birdie, four, and a son, Wilfred, ten

Ty has followed in his father and mother's footsteps (pictured in 2018)

He played an older version of Aegon Targaryen, the son of King Viserys and Alicent Hightower in House Of The Dragon - the hugely popular prequel to Game of Thrones