Adele has confirmed she will be performing summer shows in Munich, Germany in August, marking her first gigs in mainland Europe since 2016.

The global superstar, 35, who is currently performing weekly in a Las Vegas residency, will take to the stage in Europe on the 2nd, 3rd, 9th and 10th of August 2024.

Based at Munich Messe, Adele will perform in an open-air environment that has been exclusively created for the special shows.

Announcing the news on Instagram on Wednesday, she told her fans: 'So a few months ago I got a call about a summer run of shows. I’ve been content as anything with my shows in London’s Hyde Park and my residency in Vegas, so I hadn’t had any other plans.'

'However, I was too curious to not follow up and indulge in this idea - a one off, bespoke pop-up stadium designed around whatever show I want to put on? Ohh!? Pretty much slap bang in the middle of Europe? In Munich?'

'That’s a bit random, but still fabulous! Right after the Euros? Come on England! With the Olympics next door? Go on Simone! And some of my favourite artists playing shows too? Why…YES!!'

'I haven’t played in Europe since 2016! I couldn’t think of a more wonderful way to spend my summer and end this beautiful phase of my life and career with shows closer to home during such an exciting summer. Guten Tag babes x.'

MailOnline has taken a look at what the singer has the potential to make from the concerts and what her current net worth looks like already.

Adele has confirmed she will be performing summer shows in Munich, Germany in August, marking her first gigs in mainland Europe since 2016

The global superstar, 35, who is currently performing weekly in a Las Vegas residency, will take to the stage in Europe on the 2nd, 3rd, 9th and 10th of August 2024

MailOnline has taken a look at what the singer has the potential to make from the concerts and what her current net worth looks like already

What will Adele earn from Munich summer shows?

Despite tickets yet to go on sale, the Munich shows are sure to boost Adele's already incredible personal fortune even higher.

The bespoke arena will feature a combination of seated grandstands and standing areas with capacity for 80,000 people per night.

Speaking about her potential earnings, Brand and Culture Expert Nick Ede told MailOnline: 'Adele announcing her European dates is big step when many thought she would take a break after her Vegas run.

'But performing for four nights to 80,000 people per night will make her millions and also cement her status as one of the biggest stars in the world.

'Adele will have been offered a lot of money to perform at the purpose built venue and I can expect there will be various packages available for fans from general seating to VIP and even meet and greet packages that will go for thousands.'

He continued: 'She will also have a cut of all the merchandise sold on the night and even on food and beverages consumed.

'Adele is a very shrewd businesswoman with a good understanding of her commercial power.

'Not only will the concerts be sold out but they will have the Taylor Swift effect of creating a micro economy boost with influx of fans coming to Munich to see the star, which will increase revenue for the city due to the big increase in visitors.

'Adele can make over 10 million from her four night residency. She will look at this model as perhaps a good way of touring for her next album but doing mini residencies around the world like Beyoncé, Harry Style and Taylor Swift have successfully done.

'I can imagine she will film this concert too and make a film that will be seen on a streamer similar to how J.Lo is launching her new album with a partnership with Amazon.'

Nick added: 'What's great about Adele is that she knows what her fans want, but also she drip feeds them fabulously with nuggets that keeps them wanting more.'

Despite tickets yet to go on sale, the Munich shows are sure to boost Adele's already incredible personal fortune even higher

The bespoke arena will feature a combination of seated grandstands and standing areas with capacity for 80,000 people per night

How much did Adele make from Las Vegas residency?

Adele is currently performing the last leg of her highly acclaimed Las Vegas residency Weekends With Adele, which runs through mid-June.

Consisting of Friday and Saturday night gigs at the Colosseum at Caesars Palace, by the end of its run, she will have performed an incredible 50 dates and a 100 shows in total.

The residency has reportedly earned her a staggering $1 million per show, with the New York Post claiming her extended run netted her roughly $2 million per show and a guaranteed $105 million overall.

The publication also claimed that her deal includes a 5% sweetener if ticket sales minus expenses exceed her nightly windfall.

On top of that, Adele has cannily struck a reported deal through which she receives a whopping 50 per cent cut of the merchandise.

The merch includes Rolling in the Deep sweatshirts for $110 a pop, as well as a bottle of wine, necklaces that read 'divorced', snap up socks with glasses of wine on them and even Adele-branded tissues.

The venue has a capacity of around 4,200 and tickets are estimated to range up to $16,940 (£12,460).

Adele is also reported to be on the way to be the artist earning the most per show in Vegas history.

In another financially savvy move, Adele added to her paycheck with the part documentary of her Weekends With Residency, after seeing the huge earnings for her 2021 One Night Only interview, which generated revenue of around £80m at the time.

Broadcasters and streaming network inked huge deals with the star for the rights to the film, with additional deals being made for digital downloads, streaming and DVD sales, and she will continue to earn money in long-term residuals.

It was reported that Weekends With Residency banked Adele over £50m worldwide in TV syndication or streaming, on demand sales, digital release and CD sales.

Discussing the move in June last year, an insider told The Mirror: 'Adele's Vegas shows are not just a massive success critically and with fans, but also financially.

'And the film special is also going to bring in millions more - a sum greater than the show payments.

'She and her team have a raft of deals lined up to sell worldwide for TV networks and streamers. Her appeal and value for this kind of prime time show commands millions from each country.

'Her last special One Night Only made around $100m globally, which demonstrates her appeal. In the past Adele played stadia, but Vegas has just 4000 seats a night, so millions want to watch a full scale production and mini doc about her journey.

'These shows in June will be recorded and have film crews follow her success. It's another brilliant business move, which over the long term will make her tens of millions.'

Adele is currently performing the last leg of her highly acclaimed Las Vegas residency Weekends With Adele, which runs through mid-June

Consisting of Friday and Saturday night gigs at the Colosseum at Caesars Palace, by the end of its run, she will have performed an incredible 50 dates and a 100 shows in total

The residency has reportedly earned her a staggering $1 million per show, with the New York Post claiming her extended run netted her roughly $2 million per show and a guaranteed $105 million overall

Adele is also reported to be on the way to be the artist earning the most per show in Vegas history and has also made deals to get a whopping 50 per cent cut of the merchandise

What is Adele's net worth?

Outside her income from her live shows and tours, Adele is still handsomely well-off thanks to her catalogue of wildly popular music, raking in incredible profits from royalties alone.

Her album 21 sold a total of 31 million copies worldwide, marking the best-selling album of the 21st century so far and one of the best-selling albums of all time.

Her third album 25 sold 22 million copies while her latest LP 30 in 2021, sold 5.54 million worldwide.

In 2019, Adele raked in nearly £23,000 a day despite not releasing a record or going on a tour, making a staggering £8.6million profit after taxes, which works out to £23,719 a day.

Adele has shown herself to be a strong businesswoman, owning four different companies, which look after her royalties and album sales.

She formed Melted Stone Ltd in April 2008, and is the sole director under her real name Adele Laurie Blue Adkins.

Account summaries made up to December 31, 2021 show the songstress had huge income in the year she released her comeback album 30.

Last year, the company saw its wealth jump by £11.2 million over 12 months and the latest filings show cash in the bank and in hand at £27,904,643 as of 2022.

One of her other companies, Melted Stone Publishing Ltd, has an additional £8,272,223 in assets as of 2022.

Her net worth is currently listed at an eye-watering £173 million ($220 million) which includes her salary from her Las Vegas residency, the sales of her four albums ($31 million) and another $34 million in digital sales.

However, Adele has insisted that she is not motivated by money and declared she will never lend her name to a product.

She said: 'I think it's shameful when you sell out. It depends on what kind of artist you wanna be but I don't want my name anywhere near another brand.

'I don't wanna be tainted or haunted - I don't wanna sell out in any way. I don't come from money and I'm not fussed by money. I like nice things now I've got it but I'd still be alive and healthy and a good person if I didn't have money now.

'But if I was money-driven, I'd be very excited about the money coming in. I'd be the face of full-fat Coke. Get another million in the bank.'

Outside her income from her live shows and tours, Adele is still handsomely well-off thanks to her catalogue of wildly popular music, raking in incredible profits from royalties alone

Her album 21 sold a total of 31 million copies worldwide, marking the best-selling album of the 21st century so far and one of the best-selling albums of all time

Her net worth is currently listed at an eye-watering £173 million ($220 million) which includes her salary from her Las Vegas residency, the sales of her four albums ($31 million) and another $34 million in digital sales

What properties does Adele own?

Since shooting to fame, Adele has also shown a keen interest in the property market and has bought and sold a number of lavish properties both in the UK and US, which have only added to her fortune.

Adele's first foray into property was the stunning Lock House mansion in Partridge Green, which has an amazing 84.7 acres of land.

She lived in the home in 2012 when her career began to sky rocket after the success of her first album, 21.

A year later she moved to East Grinstead - in the home she has just sold - and the Lock House is on the market for £6.5million.

As well as her US properties, Adele has two adjacent homes in Kensington, bought for £5.65million and £5.38million in 2012, which she was planning to knock through to create a mega mansion.

The house includes a display cabinet in which her Oscar for the song Skyfall is housed, along with the sparkly Burberry dress and Louboutin silver platform pumps which she wore for her performance.

She also purchased a flat in trendy Notting Hill for £600,000, but transferred ownership to her mother, Penny Adkins, according to publicly-available land registry records.

In 2016, the Skyfall singer purchased a four-bedroom, six-bathroom home for £8.5 million in Beverly Hills, complete with pool and summerhouse.

Adele then splashed out on a second home in Beverly Hills in 2019, paying £8.53million for five-bedroom, six-bathroom home, which was built in the early 60s, spans 6,045 square feet and sits on nearly an acre.

The property includes a large office, an art studio, a crafts room, a library and a gym and images confirmed at the time that the house was opposite her estranged husband Simon Konecki's pad, which she purchased from him.

Adele continued to monopolise the Beverly Hills suburb, with a having a third home, next to the others she owns, from pal Nicole Richie and her musician husband Joel Madden.

The four-bedroom, four-bathroom mansion, with pool and basketball court, was sold for $9,950,000 on May 26.

The star-studded neighbourhood is also home to famous faces like Jennifer Lawrence, Katy Perry, Penelope Cruz, Javier Bardem and Nicole Kidman.

In 2022, Adele and her husband Rich Paul purchased a luxury Los Angeles mansion for £47million ($58million).

The stunning new 18,587 square-foot abode boasts eight-bedrooms and 12-bathrooms and was formerly owned by Sylvester Stallone.

According to TMZ, the couple then did a total renovation on the property, but kept the Rocky statue located at one end of the pool.

Since shooting to fame, Adele has also shown a keen interest in the property market and has bought and sold a number of lavish properties both in the UK and US, which have only added to her fortune

Adele owns three properties in Beverly Hills, with famous neighbours including Jennifer Lawrence, Katy Perry, Penelope Cruz, Javier Bardem and Nicole Kidman.

In 2022, Adele and her husband Rich Paul purchased a luxury Los Angeles mansion for £47million ($58million)

The stunning new 18,587 square-foot abode boasts eight-bedrooms and 12-bathrooms and was formerly owned by Sylvester Stallone