A warehouse storing 900 tons of lithium batteries waiting to be recycled went up in flames this afternoon, amid growing fears over their dangers.

The fire in France occurred at a storehouse in the town in Viviez in Aveyron, and residents were told to stay indoors by authorities.

Locals were ordered to keep their doors and window closed as the thick smoke engulfed the town. No injuries or deaths were reported.

While the cause of the fire has yet to be confirmed, it took 70 firefighters to get the flames under control.

Lithium batteries, found in e-scooters, are the fastest growing fire risk in London, with the London Fire Brigade called to an e-bike or scooter fire once every two days on average last year.

The fire in France has once again raised questions around the use and safety concerning the batteries.

A warehouse storing 900 tons of lithium batteries waiting to be recycled went up in flames this afternoon, amid growing fears over their dangers

The fire in France occurred at a storehouse in the town on Viviez in Aveyron, and residents were told to stay indoors by authorities

Locals were ordered to keep their doors and window closed as the thick smoke engulfed the town. No injuries or deaths were reported

Jean-Louis Denoit, the mayor of Viviez, called the fire 'shocking' and told French news outlet BFMTV: 'There is indeed reason to ask questions about the function of electric vehicles and lithium batteries.'

The fire comes amid proposals in the UK to build one of Europe's largest battery storage sites in Buckinghamshire has been met with fierce criticism.

More than 200 residents have lodged objections to Statera Energy's plans to construct the 500 megawatt facility on fields at Rookery Farm.

The developers have planned to 'strip the topsoil' and build 888 full-sized shipping containers to accommodate the batteries, which will be surrounded by a 2.5m high steel mesh fence.

The energy firm also wants to build 37 inverter houses, three storage containers, seven control rooms, four fire water storage tanks, a large customer substation and a welfare unit.

It's expected that it will take 18 months to build the battery plant, with residents also voicing concerns over the possibility of 30 HGVs passing through each day.

Buckingham Tory MP Greg Smith told MailOnline that he was 'sick and tired of agricultural land being taken from Buckinghamshire for development'.

The fire comes amid proposals in the UK to build one of Europe's largest battery storage sites in Buckinghamshire has been met with fierce criticism

Campaigners said they visited this Yorkshire site to see what it would be like

More than 200 residents have lodged objections to Statera Energy's plans to construct the 500 megawatt facility on fields at Rookery Farm. Pictured are residents with MP Greg Smith

These huge battery storage plants could become a regular sight in Britain, with hundreds of applications lodged with councils around the country, the BBC reports.

READ MORE - Fury as villagers slam plans for 900 shipping container development next to their homes in Buckinghamshire countryside Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/news/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_2 - ->

But furious campaigners say that the controversial plant would damage the environment and 'undoubtedly affect the mental health of the community'.

It also comes after the construction of HS2 and their battle against a separate 2,100-acre solar farm in Buckinghamshire.

The Rosefield Solar Farm is estimated to power 57,000 homes and save 125,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide but campaigners say it will destroy more farmland and spoil the countryside views.

It follows confirmation that a blaze at the Royal Courts of Justice was caused by an e-bike battery failure earlier this month.

The fire destroyed part of a ground floor storage room and caused chaos outside as it disrupted traffic in the Strand, London.

The LFB said at the time: 'Whilst E-Bikes and E-Scooters offer a great way round the city, if the batteries become damaged or begin to fail they can start incredibly ferocious fires.

'Lithium battery fires can spread quickly out of control, and within minutes have started a large fire.

It follows confirmation that a blaze at the Royal Courts of Justice was caused by an e-bike battery failure earlier this month. Member of the legal profession are seen outside the Old Bailey amid the incident

Fire crews had to check out 'multiple buildings' on Warwick Lane

Frefighters with specialist gear (pictured) from three fire engines rushed to battle the blaze

The Genius Star XI was carrying a load of lithium-ion batteries across the Pacific Ocean, from Vietnam to San Diego when the cargo caught on fire last December

'When these batteries are charged in communal areas or escape routes, a fire breaking out can quickly block people's ability to escape.'

Last December, a cargo ship carrying lithium ion batteries was burning as it reached Alaska.

The 19-strong crew managed to make it to shore with no injuries reported, according to the US Coast Guard.

The Genius Star XI was carrying a load of lithium-ion batteries across the Pacific Ocean, from Vietnam to San Diego when the cargo caught on fire, the guard's Alaska district said in a release.

The fire started on Christmas Day in cargo hold No. 1, a spokesperson for ship owner Wisdom Marine Group said at the time.

The crew worked quickly to release carbon dioxide into the hold and sealed it over to avoid a potential explosion.