Before launching to stardom in one of Hollywood's most beloved film franchises, this famous actor was better known for his impressive dance moves.

Back in the Eighties, this performer spent his youth break dancing at Columbus Circle and, across town, at Washington Square Park.

In a resurfaced video of the entertainer instructing others on how to break dance, he looks completely unrecognizable without his trademark bald head and ripped physique.

While his muscles could, now, rival a professional bodybuilder, the kid in the video was just a tall, lanky teenager trying to impress audiences by doing the upside down worm on the floor.

Can you guess who the ambitious young man with the sweatband over his head is?

Before launching to stardom in one of Hollywood's most beloved film franchise, this famous actor was better known for his dance moves

Back in the Eighties, this performer spent his youth break dancing at Columbus Circle in Columbus Circle and, across town, at Washington Square Park

It's Vin Diesel! Best known for his role as Dominic Toretto in the Fast & Furious franchise, alongside the late Paul Walker, Jordana Brewster and Tyrese Gibson.

Over the years, the father-of-three, 56, has spoken about his past as a break dancer on various talk shows, including an appearance on the Tonight Show With Jay Leno in 2011.

After Leno pulled out the VHS tape featuring a group of young dancers, including a baby-faced Diesel, the actor began to laugh as he dubbed that period of his life 'the good ole days.'

Four years later, Kelly Ripa and her then-cohost Michael Strahan pulled out that same old tape and asked about what it was like being a street performer.

'It was my first gig,' he said. 'Those are the good days... people know that I was a bouncer but the real reason I started bouncing was because I loved to dance and I would dance for free.'

In 2021, Jimmy Fallon asked about the video, and asked Diesel if he remembered making it.

'Yes, I do remember doing this. It was the highlight of my life!' he mused.

Diesel made his stage debut at age seven, at Theater for the New City in Greenwich Village, when he appeared in the children's play Dinosaur Door

It is Vin Diesel! Best known for his role as Dominic Toretto in the Fast & Furious franchise, alongside the late Paul Walker, Jordana Brewster and Tyrese Gibson

The star is pictured with Walker in 2001's The Fast And The Furious

According to the Vin Diesel Handbook, he broke into the theater with his brother and friends with the intent to vandalize it.

After getting caught by a play director, they were offered roles in the next show instead of having the police called on them.

He continued to stay involved with the theater while attending Hunter College, where he studied creative writing, for three years.

At that time, he worked at a nightclub called The Tunnel.

Diesel, who is considered one of the world's highest-grossing actors, rose to fame after appearing in Steven Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan in 1998.

Then, he landed films such as Boiler Room, The Pacifier, Find Me Guilty as well as voice work for video games like The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay, The Chronicles of Riddick: Assault on Dark Athena and the voices of Groot I and Groot II in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU).