World heavyweight champion Tyson Fury is reportedly eyeing a move to a luxury mansion on an offshore tax haven.

Fury currently lives in his hometown of Morecambe, but is considering a change of scenery and went to view a potential new home before Christmas.

The 34-year-old is interested in renting a place with his wife Paris and their seven children, and went via helicopter to look at a £10,000-a-month mansion last year, according to The Mirror.

The mansion known as Billown Manor is located on the Isle of Man, and has six double ensuite bedrooms, two self-contained two-bedroom flats, a swimming pool, gym and tennis court.

An estate agent's listing hails Billown Manor as: 'One of the Isle of Man’s most exclusive period homes. Beautifully appointed, extremely private and set in a manicured parkland and lakeside setting.'

Tyson Fury is reportedly eyeing a move to the luxury mansion known as Billown Manor (pictured) on the Isle of Man. Credit: Chrystals.co.im

Billown Manor has a swimming pool, gym and a tennis court as well as six en-suite bedrooms and two self-contained two bedroom flats. Credit: Chrystals.co.im

Billown Manor has plenty of outdoor space, and could be an attractive option for Fury due to the Isle of Man's generous tax breaks for the super-rich. Credit: Chrystals.co.im

Fury could move into the mansion with his wife Paris (left) and their seven children

It could also be an attractive prospect for Fury due to the Isle of Man's generous tax breaks for the super-rich.

Residents do not have to pay wealth taxes, capital gains taxes or estate taxes, and only have to pay 20 per cent for personal income tax.

They can also have their annual tax bill capped at £200,000 if they sign a five or 10-year deal to stay on the island.

However, in order to qualify for residency, they must live on the island for at least six months of the year.

Should Fury pen a long-term deal, he would only be paying a small fraction of his estimated wealth - believed to be around £50m - in taxes.

Fury has previously weighed up the idea of moving to the Isle of Man, revealing that he viewed a property ahead of his Official After Party Tour in 2022.

He said: 'Last year, I was looking at buying a property on the Isle of Man.

'I was thinking about moving there. So I’ll have a good scout around and see what I can see. It’s only a few hours from Morecambe on the ferry, isn’t it?'

Fury is one of the highest paid boxers on the planet, and it was claimed that he earned £41m for his crossover clash with Francis Ngannou in October.

Fury earned a reported £41m for his crossover fight with Francis Ngannou in October

He is now preparing to face Oleksandr Usyk in May after their fight was delayed when Fury suffered a cut in sparring

He is set for another major payday on May 18 when he faces Oleksandr Usyk for the right to be called the undisputed heavyweight champion of the world.

The pair were due to meet tonight, but their fight was pushed back after Fury suffered a cut in sparring earlier this month.

Their bout has been rescheduled, with both men agreeing to hand over £8m if they withdraw from the fight.

Fury has also talked up the prospect of facing fellow Brit Anthony Joshua and giving Ngannou a rematch, suggesting that he could be set for more mouthwatering paydays in the future.