A holidaymaker is suing an airport parking company after workers 'forgot' to pick up her car at the airport.

Nadine Emsley, 46, was flying for a 10-day trip to Kefalonia, Greece including a close friend's wedding in September.

Using online comparison site Looking4.com, she booked the £111 meet and greet service at Heathrow Airport with JetParks.

Before leaving for the airport Nadine - a lawyer from the Isle of Wight - tried to call JetParks to confirm her booking but the call went straight to voicemail.

Court documents show after frantically calling the company a further 11 times in two hours as well as texting and emailing as they travelled to the airport, Nadine and brother Ollie were forced to pay £340 to park in the airport long stay car park.

Nadine Emsley, 46, (left) and her brother Ollie (right) was flying for a 10-day trip to Kefalonia, Greece including a close friend's wedding in September

Using online comparison site Looking4.com, she booked the £111 meet and greet service at Heathrow Airport with JetParks for her car

A friend of Nadine's said: 'They were worried they would miss the flight. It was only because they planned to arrive early to check in bags that they made it at all.

'She phoned and phoned the number and nobody answered so they had no choice but to go to Heathrow long stay which was expensive.'

Nadine told friends she spent several days of her holiday going back and forth with customer service agents and was told a high volume of calls meant she couldn't get through.

She described the response as 'nothing short of hopeless and entirely missing the point'.

The lawyer initially asked the company to refund her money but after receiving no response she is now suing Cavu Ecommerce which was previously called Looking4Parking Limited for £480.

In her claim form, seen by MailOnline, she alleges JetParks is not an independent company and is linked to Looking4.com despite not advertising the connection and both companies are actually owned by Manchester Airport Plc.

The friend added: 'Nadine is just flabbergasted that they are continuing to fight this. She's tried to resolve this but they are just belligerent about it.

'Because she happens to be a lawyer she can do this but what happens to somebody else who can't - there is nobody who is going to help them to get their money back.

'When you innocently go online to book car parking for your holiday do you know who it is? There is no transparency and when things go wrong there is nobody who will help you.'

Court documents show after frantically calling the company a further 11 times in two hours as well as texting and emailing as they travelled to the airport

They had to pay £340 to park in the airport long stay car park over their holiday

Nadine told friends she spent several days of her holiday going back and forth with customer service agents and was told a high volume of calls meant she couldn't get through

Cavu Ecommerce did not respond when asked to comment but court documents show it is disputing the claim Looking4.com is linked to JetParks and says it only provided the booking services while the losses relate to Nadine's issue with the parking provider.

After an initial hearing took place this week the case is due before the County Court this summer.

Nadine is not the only passenger to have a bad experience parking with JetParks. The company has a 1.5 star rating on Trustpilot with customers complaining of unanswered calls, long waits, damaged vehicles and items being stolen. One wrote: We booked a meet and greet service, they didn't answer the phone until 15 mins before my car park appointment and then when someone turned up after we had been waiting for another 45 mins they told me that despite someone being in the office they were to lazy to come and collect the car, delaying my check in.'

Another commented: 'We dropped off the car with no problems, apart from a slight wait for the driver. However, on our return we waited over 30 minutes and then the following day found that cash and other items had been stolen from the car. We contacted the company who refused to investigate or accept any liability for the theft.'