Dozens of Texas families are campaigning against uber-liberal Austin DA Jose Garza who they say is 'revictimizing' them after the deaths of their loved ones by not pursuing strict jail-time for their killers and attackers.

Over 70 survivors of rape and other violent crimes and the families of those killed in the Austin area have formed a group to air their grievances with Travis County District Attorney Jose Garza.

Backed by liberal billionaire George Soros, Garza swept into office in 2021 in a post George Floyd election-- promising to prosecute bad cops and reform the justice system, especially for black and brown law breakers.

'I thought he might be lenient on people caught with pot, not that he would be letting murderers go,' Conny Branham, whose son was murdered in June 2020 told DailyMail.com.

Chris Branham, 26, was brutally beaten by a gang of five people, who stomped on his face in a motel.

Two of the suspects drove him out to a remote corn field, where the father of two tried to flee, but was ultimately shot to death.

Jose Garza was elected to office in 2020 and is currently running for re-election. The Democrat has a primary challenger, Jeremy Sylestine

Chris Branham, 26 was killed in June 2020 after his body was dumped in a field outside of Austin

Chris Branham (left) and his mother, Conny, (right) visiting the beach in Fort Lauderdale, Florida in 2016

It took 37 days for his body to be located and his mother said he was mummified by then.

Five people were involved in his mob-style beating, with the drug dealers believing Branham was a police informant, according to prosecutors.

Only three of the five suspects arrested were sentenced to prison time.

A man and teen girl, who shared a video on Snapchat of herself kicking and breaking Branham's jaw, had charges against them dropped.

Kyle Cleveland, the man who prosecutors say fired the shots that killed Branham was originally indicted under capital murder charges, but the charges were later reduced and he was offered a plea deal for 14 years.

Kyle Cleveland and Anthony Davis both received plea deals from Travis County District Attorney Jose Garza for their roles in the beating, kidnapping and shooting of Chris Branham

🍫💔 Happy Valentine's Day from TMPA to Travis County DA @JosePGarza 💔🍫



In the spirit of love and *sweetness*, we couldn't think of a better way to celebrate than by showering Travis County DA Garza with thousands of Hershey Kisses. Why, you ask? Each delicious little morsel… pic.twitter.com/BavoJ9Il3u — TMPA (@TMPALegislative) February 14, 2024

The DA's office did not inform the Branhams that Garza was offering them plea deals until the paperwork had already been signed, Conny claims.

The grieving mother and her family have already gone to parole eligibility hearings to try to keep her son's attackers in prison.

'It's total re-victimization,' fumed Conny. 'We, the victims have to go to parole hearings and write letters, relive every thing, every single time, just to entertain a criminal.'

Then there are the cases Garza flat out refused to prosecute, resulting in charges being dropped all together-- up almost 50% compared to the previous DA, an investigation by local TV station KXAN found.

'It's because he believes that prison is bad,' lawyer Jeremy Sylestine who is running against Garza told DailyMail.com.

Jeremy Sylestine, a former prosecutor in Austin, Texas, is challenging Travis County District Attorney Jose Garza in the Democratic primary

Travis County District Attorney Jose Garza is on record as being against the death penalty, vowing to never enforcing it as long as he's in office

'He believes that he knows better than the Travis County citizens who make up our juries. There's a reluctance to take cases to trial and hear what the community has to say. Rather than do, he'd rather cut a deal that smacks the victim right in face.'

The Democrat even offered a plea deal to Kaitlin Armstrong, the woman accused of killing the woman her boyfriend had briefly dated, in a jealous rage.

Armstrong rejected the deal, and instead, went to trial in November. A jury found her guilty in under three hours and sentenced her to 90 years in prison.

There are other countless stories like the Branham's, of families in mourning and seeking justice feeling disrespected by Garza's decision to drop charges or offer plea deals.

'I just feel broken,' JR Lopez, whose daughter was shot in the head during a deadly road rage incident, bleed out in her father's arms.

JR Lopez pictured with his daughter, Miranda, 21, who was killed in 2021

Miranda Lopez, whose dad says loved being with her nieces and nephews, was shot in the head during a road rage incident in Austin, Texas

The two men who fired at Miranda Lopez while she was driving home from dinner with her sister were also offered plea deals, even though the families were told state law allowed prosecutors to seek up to 99 years in prison.

Lopez said Garza refused to take the cases to trial.

'This isn't justice,' the victim's dad said. 'I'm not sure how much longer I can do this.'

Garza declined to be interviewed for this story, however, he sent a statement to DailyMail.com defending his record.

'Over the last three years, the District Attorney’s Office has focused on holding accountable people who commit acts of violence and addressing the root causes of violence,' the statement said.

'As a result, this is one of the safest communities in the country.'

Garza, who previously worked as a federal public defender, originally ran for office under the promise of being a different type of DA.

'He's someone who doesn't know what he's doing,' Sylestine added. 'He's not a trial lawyer. He has not been a criminal lawyer for most of his career and he's never been in front of a Travis County jury in his whole life. I just don't know that this is what Travis County bargained for in 2020.'

Garza's campaign promises were to focus more on violent crimes and less on low-level drug offenses, he told a liberal legal publication.

In his first 100 days in office, the Democrat ended the use of cash bail for people charged with low-level, non-violent crimes.

Anita Byington, 21, was beaten to death in August 1992. Allen Andre Causey confessed to killing Byington over a drug dispute, and is now seeking exoneration through the Texas Innocence Project

He's also actively working with the Innocence Project of Texas, the group best known for helping death row inmates avoid the death penalty, to review cases from 1985 through 199, the Department of Justice announced.

Garza is on record as being against the death penalty, and while running for office in 2020, vowed to never seek it if he became district attorney.

Kristina Byington and her family was blindsided to learn Garza was working overturn a conviction for her cousin's killer.

Allen Andre Causey had been convicted in July 1992 for the murder of Anita Byington.

'I don't understand it-- how can you be pro-criminal,' Kristina Byington said.

Byington complained the DA's office hasn't even had the courtesy to keep them informed of hearings, forcing them to hire an attorney to review the facts of the case.

The DA's beside manner was family was the most common complaint expressed by multiple victim's families interviewed by DailyMail.com

Garza's opponent, a former assistant district attorney, claims 75 prosecutors out of about 95 have left the office under Garza's tenure.

'It's a huge percentage of experience and that can't be replaced quickly, and I don't know that he has the tools to teach people in a way that makes the public and victims feel good about who is handling those cases,' Sylestine stated.