Ricky Norwood was the next star to be eliminated on Sunday night's episode of Dancing On Ice.

The EastEnders actor, 40, and his pro partner Annette Dytrt faced the skate-off alongside Amber Davies but were sent home after the judges' verdicts.

After both contestants performed again, it was down to the judges to pick one celebrity with Love Islander Amber, 27, and her pro partner Simon Proulx-Sénécal being saved.

Upon his exit Ricky said: 'From not being able to walk on the ice to getting to this point, I never thought I'd make it this far!

'I'm just so pleased and I appreciate all of you guys.'

Ricky Norwood was the next star to be eliminated on Sunday night's episode of Dancing On Ice

The EastEnders actor, 40, and his pro partner Annette Dytrt faced the skate-off alongside Amber Davies but were sent home after the judges' verdicts

Talking about his professional skating partner, he added: 'She's amazing, she pushed me, she believed in me, every single week, every single day, I don't know where I would have been without you sweetheart.'

Sunday night's show celebrated 40 years of Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean after they announced their retirement earlier this week.

Elsewhere Holly Willoughby stunned in a plunging red gown as she hosted the latest show.

The presenter, 43, wowed in the glamorous number that clung to her gorgeous curves for the ITV show which she now fronts with Stephen Mulhern.

She completed her look with matching red strappy heels and added a touch more elegance with a silver necklace.

Her short blonde tresses were worn in her sleek cropped style and she opted for a glowing makeup look complete with a slick of light pink lip.

She penned in the caption as she shared the look to Instagram ahead of the show: 'Tonight on @dancingonice we celebrate 40 years of @torvillanddeanofficial iconic Bolero… so many special moments and memories in the show tonight. See you on @itv 6:24 (precise!).'

Jayne and Christopher broke their silence on retiring from ice skating on Wednesday morning.

Jayne, 66, and Christopher, 65, skated to victory at the Sarajevo Winter Olympics on Valentine's Day in 1984, winning the gold medal and earning the highest ever score for a single performance.

After both contestants performed again, it was down to the judges to pick one celebrity with Love Islander Amber, 27, and her pro partner Simon Proulx-Sénécal being saved

Amber and Ricky hugged after he was sent home

Sunday night's show celebrated 40 years of Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean after they announced their retirement earlier this week

Upon his exit Ricky said: 'From not being able to walk on the ice to getting to this point, I never thought I'd make it this far!'

Talking about his professional skating partner, he added: 'She's amazing, she pushed me, she believed in me, every single week, every single day, I don't know where I would have been without you sweetheart'

The British skating duo will embark on one final UK tour next year, which will be their swansong and mark 50 years since they formed their skating partnership in 1975 - before then officially hanging up their skates.

On Wednesday's Good Morning Britain, hosts Ed Balls and Charlotte Hawkins spoke to the pair in their first interview since announcing their retirement.

Live from Sarajevo, where the couple skated to Olympic gold, the iconic duo joined GMB from where it all started to discuss their last farewell tour.

On why the duo felt like now was the right time, Chris said: 'Gosh well 40 years ago is a long time. In actual fact, next year in 2025, we have been skating together for 50 years and we felt that was a really nice round number to say 'we have had a wonderful time but it's time to retire a little bit and hang up the skates'.

'No more touring except for the last tour we are hoping to do next year.'

Jayne added: 'We feel that it will be the last tour but it will be a celebration of everything that we have been through since 1984, winning the Olympics, which opened up the door to lots of other things in the future.'

Dancing On Ice's Roxy Shahidi and Lou Sanders left the series last Sunday night after a shock double elimination.

In a first for the skating show, the lowest placed couple went straight out of the competition, whilst two others faced the skate off.

After finding herself in the bottom three, Emmerdale's Roxy and her dance partner Sylvain Longchambon were the couple that received the lowest scores and automatically eliminated from the show.

Finding out the news that she would be leaving, host Holly said: 'It's such a brutal way to go out like this. I'm gutted for you.'

Speaking after being voted off, Roxy - who previously sprained her shoulder during training - said she was disappointed not to get a chance to perform in the skate off.

She said: 'I'm really proud of what I've done and what I've learned the whole experience has been incredible.'

Scoring 24.5 from the judges, Jayne said: 'The marks are a little low because you did as assisted jump for the judges challenge.'

She added that she would have liked to see more skating, whilst Christopher Dean agreed saying he wanted her to be a bit more independent.

Judge Oti Mabuse said that she was sad because she felt the performance came up 'a little bit short'.

Comedian Lou Sanders and her partner Colin Grafton ended up in the skate off with Ricky Norwood and Annette Dytrt.

Unfortunately for them, the judges, Oti Mabuse, Jayne, Christopher and guest judge American figure skater Johnny Weird chose Ricky as their winner on the night, leading to Lou's time on the show coming to an end.

Holly Willoughby stunned in a plunging red gown as she hosted the latest show

The presenter, 43, wowed in the glamorous number that clung to her gorgeous curves for the ITV show which she now fronts with Stephen Mulhern

Ahead of the show she took to her Instagram to share a beautiful snap of her look as she tagged the designer

The show celebrated 40 years of the couple as they were presented with flowers on the night

Jayne, 66, and Christopher, 65, skated to victory at the Sarajevo Winter Olympics on Valentine's Day in 1984, winning the gold medal and earning the highest ever score for a single performance

After her elimination, Lou quipped: 'It's all about never giving up so we'll be back next week.'

She went on: 'I've had the absolute time of my life, thank you. He [Colin] said his insurance has gone up since working with me.'

The jam packed packed show started with a shocking twist as host Stephen announced there would be a double elimination.

Holly - who celebrated turning 43 on the Saturday - also told how there would be a Dancing on Ice first as the lowest placed couple would leave the competition straight away and two more couples would face the skate off.