Kylian Mbappe has signed his Real Madrid contract and agreed a deal until 2029 with the LaLiga giants, according to reports in Spain.

The French superstar has been purused by the Spanish outfit for years and rumours he could join only intensified after informing PSG last week he would be leaving in the summer, with his contract set to expire.

And now Marca have reported that Mbappe already put pen to paper on his deal to join Madrid two weeks ago, with the player 'making a firm commitment' to the Bernabeu outfit.

Mail Sport reported last week that Madrid are willing to make Mbappe the club's top earner, surpassing the £10.3m per season they pay Jude Bellingham and Vinicius Junior, but the latest report claims the player will still have to take a pay-cut.

Madrid will also pay a signing-on fee of around £85.5million and open talks over what percentage of his image rights he retains.

Kylian Mbappe has signed his Real Madrid contract after informing PSG he will leave the club this summer, according to reports

The Frenchman was expected to join Carlo Ancelotti's side after informing PSG - led by president Nasser Al-Khelaifa (R) he would leave this summer

Your browser does not support iframes.

The report from Marca claims Mbappe's camp told PSG 'not to bother' making him further offers to stay at the French club because he had already struck a deal with Madrid.

Los Blancos had contacted the player's entourage in the early days of the new year to enquire if he was still planning to join Madrid after negotiations between the two camps the previous summer, it says, with Mbappe giving a 'positive' response.

It adds that Madrid no longer saw Mbappe as a player they wanted to sign 'at any price', knowing that they already had Vinicius Jr and Bellingham as 'two of the best footballers on the planet'.

But at the start of February the club opened full negotiations looking to seal the deal as quickly as possible.

Mbappe is set to earn between £12m and £17m a year in Madrid plus bonuses - which means he would have to take a significant pay cut after earning a reported £22m a year from his lucrative deal at PSG.

Mbappe would link up with the likes of Jude Bellingham and Vinicius Jr if his move is confirmed

Madrid are ready to make the World Cup winner the highest-paid player in their squad

Amid the speculation over his potential exit, PSG club president Nassr Al-Khelaifi previously stated that he wanted the winger to stay at the club, claiming that it was the best fit for him.

He told RMC: 'Look, I'm not hiding anything.

'For sure I want Mbappe to stay. For me he is the best in the world and for me the best club for Kylian is Paris.'

Mbappe joined the Parisian side in 2017 from Monaco, initially on a loan deal, before the French giants splashed out a whopping £155m to make his transfer permanent.

In May 2022, Mbappe agreed a contract extension to stay with his hometown club until 2025

The next six months will be a busy one for Mbappe with the Euros and Olympics coming up before his expected move to Real Madrid

The French captain would go on to sign a contract extension in 2022, and has an option to extend that deal for another year until June 2025.

During his time in Paris, Mbappe has gone on to return a staggering 243 goals in 290 appearances for the club, netting his 44th goal Champions League goal last night.

Yet it seemed as though his time at PSG had been nearing its end for a while now, with tensions rising in recent years with both the club and the player butting heads on his contract with the club.

PSG had wanted him to extend his deal past 2025, but banished him to train with the B team, after Mbappe refused to sign a contract extension.

Mbappe then wrote a letter to the Parisian outfit stating that he would not be activating a year-long extension clause in his contract - with PSG hitting back, claiming he had inflicted 'a lasting paralysis on the club'.