Janet Jackson embraced her preppy side with stylish Queen Latifah as they attended the star-studded Thom Browne runway show during New York Fashion Week on Wednesday.

The All For You singer, 57 - who was in 'regular contact' with Usher ahead of his Super Bowl LVIII performance - joined The Equalizer actress, 53, and other celebrities at The Shed in Hudson Yards where the event was held.

The sister of the late Michael Jackson donned a fitted jumpsuit that was secured with buttons at the front to appear as a blazer.

She added a white button up underneath that was fastened around the collar as well as a black tie.

Jackson additionally slipped into a pair of sleek, white and black-colored heels that were secured with laces.

Janet Jackson, 57, embraced her preppy side with stylish Queen Latifah. 53, as they attended the star-studded Thom Browne runway show during New York Fashion Week on Wednesday

She easily draped a long, white coat over her shoulders that contained a black trim to coincide with the monochromatic color scheme of the overall look.

Janet's locks were parted in the middle, and pulled back into two separate ponytails, revealing a pair of large, gold-hooped earrings.

The performer carried a large, black purse in her hand that was made of a tweed material to hold a few items she needed during the festivities.

The songstress added a layer of mascara to her lashes as well as a warm blush to better accentuate her cheekbones for her makeup look. Jackson also added a glossy, nude-colored tint for a finishing touch.

She was spotted pausing for a quick photo session upon arriving to the venue to showcase her ensemble for the fashion show.

The superstar was later seen with fashion designer Christian Siriano at NYC hotspot The Mulberry - an intimate cocktail bar that has become popular among A-listers.

Janet Jackson seen with fashion designer Christian Siriano at NYC celeb hotspot The Mulberry

While talking to Allure back in 2022, Janet opened up about her evolving style growing up and while also working in the entertainment industry.

'I was never a girly girl. I was always a tomboy. So it was always about pants, suits, even as an early teenager,' she expressed to the outlet.

'I remember when my brothers got their star on the Walk of Fame and other awards they got, and I look back on pictures and I always had on a suit with a tie, a bow tie, or suspenders.'

The sister of the late Michael Jackson donned a fitted jumpsuit that was secured with buttons at the front to appear as a blazer

She added a white button up underneath that was fastened around the collar as well as a black tie

She easily draped a long, white coat over her shoulders that contained a black trim to coincide with the monochromatic color scheme of the overall look

Queen Latifah also made a statement while at the Thom Browne show on Wednesday, and wowed in a black coat that contained layered fabric around the midriff as well as a train for a dramatic flare

The Girls Trip actress carried a circular purse in her hand that was designed to look like a clock

The star continued, 'Always loving black and never wanting to expose any part of my body, I felt most comfortable to cover it up to here.'

In later years, she began to take more risks, such as posing topless for her 1993 album titled Janet. During that time period, she said it was her, 'embracing me and trying to learn to love me for me, my body, all of that.'

'Trying to feel comfortable in embracing that. Throwing myself in the lion's den. Just going for it, wanting to do something different.'

'It took a lot of work, a lot of work. It was something very tough, very difficult. But I'm glad I walked through it. I'm really glad I got in. It was a way of accepting and loving, accepting yourself and your body,' Janet explained.

Queen Latifah also made a statement while at the Thom Browne show on Wednesday, and wowed in a black coat that contained layered fabric around the midriff as well as a train for a dramatic flare.

Underneath, the star opted for a white button up as well as a fitted, black vest and a black tie that was secured around the collar of the shirt.

She also wore a longer, sleeveless black vest on top while slipping into black bottoms and shoes to complete the outfit.

The Girls Trip actress carried a circular purse in her hand that was designed to look like a clock. Queen Latifah added a layer of mascara to her lashes as well as a dark red tint to her lips for a finishing touch.

Underneath, the star opted for a white button up as well as a fitted, black vest and a black tie that was secured around the collar of the shirt

Shortly before the runway show commenced, both Janet and the actress were spotted sitting front row inside the crowded venue

The stars flashed small smiles as they sat next to each other while sporting fashionable, black and white-colored ensembles

Anna Wintour was also spotted sitting next to Janet and Queen Latifah while wearing a colorful, red-patterned dress and vibrant blue scarf

At one point, the Vogue editor also sported a white, fuzzy coat to help her stay warm in the cooler temperatures

Other celebrities were also in attendance, including Rachel Brosnahan who put on a classy display in a long-sleeved, black coat that contained floral details embroidered on the front

Rachel was accompanied by her husband, Jason Ralph, who was also dressed to impress for the festivities

Shortly before the runway show commenced, both Janet and the actress were spotted sitting front row inside the crowded venue.

The stars flashed small smiles as they sat next to each other while they both sported fashionable, black and white-colored ensembles.

Anna Wintour was also spotted sitting next to Janet and Queen Latifah while wearing a colorful, red-patterned dress and vibrant blue scarf.

Other celebrities were also in attendance, including Rachel Brosnahan who put on a classy display in a long-sleeved, black coat that contained floral details embroidered on the front.

The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel star also wore a black ensemble underneath while slipping into a pair of closed-toed, black pumps.

She carried a rectangular-shaped, red purse in her hand that added a pop of color to the all-black outfit.

Her dark locks were parted in the middle, and effortlessly flowed down past her shoulders in light waves.

Rachel was accompanied by her husband, Jason Ralph, who was also dressed to impress for the festivities.

The Magicians actor donned a black, pin-striped suit that comprised of a jacket as well as matching trousers that were cuffed at the bottom

He completed the look by also wearing a white dress shirt as well as a black tie and sleek, black shoes that were secured with laces

Danai Gurira sported a black coat that was left unbuttoned at the front, as well as a white ensemble underneath

The Black Panther actress slipped into a pair of black tights as well as closed-toed, black heels that were secured with laces

The beauty carried a purse in the shape of a dog and her locks were styled into two separate buns on top of her head for a final touch

The Magicians actor donned a black, pin-striped suit that comprised of a jacket as well as matching trousers that were cuffed at the bottom.

He completed the look by also wearing a white dress shirt as well as a black tie and sleek, black shoes that were secured with laces.

Both Rachel and Jason paused for a few memorable snaps together, and at one point, shared a sweet kiss in celebration of Valentine's Day.

Danai Gurira sported a black coat that was left unbuttoned at the front, as well as a white ensemble underneath.

The Black Panther actress slipped into a pair of black tights as well as closed-toed, black heels that were secured with laces.

Once inside the venue, the star appeared to wear a different coat that had paisley patterns embroidered onto the fabric, as well as a white trim.

The beauty carried a purse in the shape of a dog and her locks were styled into two separate buns on top of her head for a final touch.

Danai crossed paths with Rachel Brosnahan and the two stars were seen pausing for a photo session together before the fashion show started.

Danai crossed paths with Rachel Brosnahan and the two stars were seen pausing for a photo session together before the fashion show started

The Walking Dead actress was also spotted holding a red rose in her hand, possibly in celebration of Valentine's Day

Gurira flashed a cheerful smile as she took her seat in the front row to watch the runway show at The Shed in Hudson Yards

Rebecca Hall was also seen at the event, and turned heads wearing a sleeveless, black shirt that had a white, Peter Pan collar

She carried a small, black purse with a gold handle in her hand and was also joined by fellow actor, Morgan Spector - whom she tied the knot with in 2015

Rebecca Hall was also seen at the event, and turned heads wearing a sleeveless, black shirt that had a white, Peter Pan collar.

The Town actress also slipped into a black skirt that fell down towards her ankles as well as black pumps that had floral embellishments on top.

She carried a small, black purse with a gold handle in her hand and was also joined by fellow actor, Morgan Spector - whom she tied the knot with in 2015.

The Gilded Age actor donned a black vest that was fastened at the front with a row of buttons as well as loos-fitting, black bottoms. To complete the look, he donned a pair of sleek, black shoes.

Sophia Roe donned a blue, plaid blazer as well as a matching skirt that fell down to stop just inches above her ankles.

The star slipped into a pair of closed-toed shoes that were made of the same material as her ensemble. The chef and media personality held a small, dark navy purse in her hand while posing for a few snaps.

Tierra Whack sported a colorful, plaid coat as well as a patterned skirt and white button up.

The singer added a burgundy and white-striped tie as well as a pair of loafers. She also opted for a pair of red-rimmed glasses and styled her vibrant red locks into a chic up do.

Sophia Roe donned a blue, plaid blazer as well as a matching skirt that fell down to stop just inches above her ankles

Tierra Whack sported a colorful, plaid coat as well as a patterned skirt and white button up. The singer added a burgundy and white-striped tie as well as a pair of loafers

Editor Samantha Barry was seen wearing a short-sleeved, black dress and additionally slipped into a pair of black-heeled boots

Before the show began, Morgan Spector, Rebecca Hall, Rachel Brosnahan and Jason Ralph were spotted sitting together while holding a red rose in their hands

Danai Gurira was seen next to Christopher Abbott as well as Dree Hemingway who were also dressed to impress for the event

Editor Samantha Barry was seen wearing a short-sleeved, black dress and additionally slipped into a pair of black-heeled boots.

Her locks were parted in the middle, and fell down past her shoulders in light waves, revealing a pair of flashy, gold-hooped earrings.

Before the show began, Morgan Spector, Rebecca Hall, Rachel Brosnahan and Jason Ralph were spotted sitting together while holding a red rose in their hands.

Danai Gurira was seen next to Christopher Abbott as well as Dree Hemingway who were also dressed to impress for the event.

Dree wore a gray, plaid coat which partially concealed that white outfit she donned underneath. The Love After Love actress additionally slipped into a pair of black ankles socks and heeled shoes.

Later during the event, Queen Latifah was seen crossing paths with designer, Thom Browne, and the pair stopped for a quick photo together.

Dree wore a gray, plaid coat which partially concealed that white outfit she donned underneath. The Love After Love actress additionally slipped into a pair of black ankles socks and heeled shoes

Later during the event, Queen Latifah was seen crossing paths with designer, Thom Browne, and the pair stopped for a quick photo together

Once the runway show commenced, models were seen strutting on a snow-covered set with guests surrounding them

Another donned a structured black skirt as well as a both a cropped, white shirt and black jacket

One look that was also shown included an oversized, gold velvet coat with black-patterned details on the material

Sophia Roe steps out at the Thom Browne Men's and Women's Fall 2024 Collection at The Shed in Manhattan

Dree Hemingway sports a unique plaid coat and dressa at the Thom Browne Men's and Women's Fall 2024 Collection

Danai Gurira rocks a black look and a dachshund-shaped purse at the Thom Browne Men's and Women's Fall 2024 Collection

Danai Gurira shows off her black and white look at the Thom Browne Men's and Women's Fall 2024 Collection

Janet Jackson rocked a black-and-white look alongside Anna Wintour at the Thom Browne Men's and Women's Fall 2024 Collection

Queen Latifah posed with Eboni Nichols at the Thom Browne Men's and Women's Fall 2024 Collection

Queen Latifah poses solo for the Thom Browne Men's and Women's Fall 2024 Collection

Eboni Nicholas poses solo at the Thom Browne Men's and Women's Fall 2024 Collection

Queen Latifah rocks a huge clock at the Thom Browne Men's and Women's Fall 2024 Collection

Once the runway show commenced, models were seen strutting on a snow-covered set with guests surrounding them.

One wore a long coat as well as a white sweater and fitted black skirt while a black hat with dramatic details was placed on top of the model's head.

Another donned a structured black skirt as well as a both a cropped, white shirt and black jacket.

One look that was also shown included an oversized, gold velvet coat with black-patterned details on the material.