Mariah Carey joined fellow music superstar Beyonce at the New York City premiere of Tyler Perry's new legal thriller Mea Culpa on Thursday night.

The songstress, 54, was caught exiting the Paris Theater after the screening, where she caught up with writer/director Perry and the Netflix film's star Kelly Rowland.

The night proved to be a mini Destiny's Child reunion as both Beyonce and Michelle Williams turned out to support Rowland's latest Hollywood project.

For the night, Carey looked phenomenal in a busty Louis Vuitton minidress styled with a black faux fur coat and black knee-high boots.

She was joined by a team of security who helped her go from dinner with her stylist to the premiere venue in a flash.

Mariah Carey joined fellow music superstar Beyonce at the New York City premiere of Tyler Perry 's new legal thriller Mea Culpa on Thursday night. Beyonce reunited with her Destiny's Child pals Michelle Williams and Kelly Rowland, who stars in the new film

The songstress, 54, was caught exiting the Paris Theater after the screening, where she caught up with writer/director Perry and the Netflix film's star Kelly Rowland

For the night, Carey looked phenomenal in a busty Louis Vuitton minidress

Carey offered a friendly smile and her honey-toned hair was worn in her signature bouncy curls.

Meanwhile, Beyonce was photographed exiting her chauffeured SUV outside of the Paris Theater with her longtime husband Jay-Z in tow.

Like Mariah, Beyonce also opted to skip the red carpet.

The Halo hitmaker showed a lot of leg while wearing a hooded black and white striped minidress and stylish mules.

She layered up with a glamorous black fur coat and shielded her eyes with futuristic shades.

Beyonce — who looked red hot on Valentine's Day — kept her platinum blonde hair mostly hidden under her dress' hood.

She carried a black Balmain purse as she and her security team made their way to the event's entry.

As for makeup, Beyonce rocked a glossy lip, vibrant peach blush and luminous bronzing powder to give herself a radiant glow.

Her dress was styled with a black faux fur coat and black knee-high boots

She was joined by a team of security who helped her go from dinner with her stylist to the premiere venue in a flash

Carey offered a friendly smile and her honey-toned hair was worn in her signature bouncy curls

Carey did not make an appearance on the premiere's red carpet

Carey did not make an appearance on the premiere's red carpet

Beyonce caused a fan frenzy on Thursday night as she arrived at the New York City premiere of Tyler Perry's new Netflix film Mea Culpa

Beyonce caused a fan frenzy on Thursday night as she arrived at the New York City premiere of Tyler Perry's new Netflix film Mea Culpa

The superstar, 42, was photographed exiting her chauffeured SUV outside of the Paris Theater

The Halo hitmaker showed a lot of leg while wearing a hooded black and white striped minidress

She was joined by her longtime husband Jay-Z

Jay-Z cut a stylish figure in a gray tweed suit worn with a classic white button-up shirt and a skinny black tie.

The music mogul, 54, gave his look a casual touch by accessorizing with a black beanie hat.

The couple was there to support not only director Tyler Perry but the film's star and producer Kelly Rowland.

Beyonce and Kelly were both part of the girl group Destiny's Child with Michelle Williams, who also showed up at Thursday night's NYC premiere.

Destiny's Child split up in 2006 — after Beyonce launched her highly-successful solo career — but recently reunited for the Renaissance World Tour.

Rowland looked sensational as she hit the red carpet in a racy tan bodysuit that showed off her legs.

She carried a black Balmain purse as she and her security team made their way to the event's entry

She strolled the sidewalk in stylish mules

She layered up with a glamorous black fur coat

Beyonce shielded her eyes with futuristic shades

Beyonce kept her platinum blonde hair mostly hidden under her dress' hood

Bey was later seen exiting the Paris Theater after the screening wrapped

She looked jovial

She offered friendly waves in the direction of her fans

Beyonce kept her platinum blonde hair mostly hidden under her dress' hood

The music mogul, 54, gave his look a casual touch by accessorizing with a black beanie hat

Beyonce's mother Tina Lawson also attended the premiere

She wore the leggy one-piece under a vintage-inspired plaid trench coat with exaggerated shoulder pads.

The mother-of-two slipped on shiny patent leather heels and semi-sheer tights to complete her camera-ready look.

Rowland stars as criminal defense attorney Mea Harper in the upcoming Netflix crime thriller written and directed by Perry.

The film follows Mea as she decides to represent a young male artist (played by Trevante Rhodes) who has been accused of murdering his girlfriend.

Rowland and Perry are also listed as producers on the project, which was picked up last February and wrapped filming in March.

Mea Culpa will be available to stream on Netflix starting February 23.

Rowland looked thrilled to have the support of Destiny's Child's Michelle Williams as they shared the spotlight for photos.

The night served as a mini Destiny's Child reunion as Beyonce joined the film's star Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams on the red carpet

Kelly Rowland looked sensational as she hit the red carpet in a racy tan bodysuit that showed off her legs

She wore the leggy one-piece under a vintage-inspired plaid trench coat with exaggerated shoulder pads

Rowland looked thrilled to have the support of Williams

The duo happily shared the spotlight

Williams looked ravishing while teasing her toned tummy in a glamorous all-red outfit

The unique coord featured a cropped top with dramatic batwing sleeves and wide-legged pants

After the screening, Kelly was photographed smiling as she exited the theater with the film's cast and crew

Michelle looked breathtaking upon her exit

Rowland co-produced Mea Culpa with Tyler Perry, who served as director and screenwriter

The duo had a warm interaction on the red carpet

They also posed with the film's lead male star Trevante Rhodes (left)

Sherri Shepherd was also on hand for the star-studded occasion in New York City

The talk show host put on a busty display by going topless under a brown suit jacket

She wore matching slacks and brown stiletto heels

The duo smiled for the cameras

Tyler Perry turned heads in a Matrix-inspired look consisting of a black vinyl jacket and faux leather pants

Williams looked ravishing while teasing her toned tummy in a glamorous all-red outfit.

The unique coord featured a cropped top with dramatic batwing sleeves and wide-legged pants.

Sherri Shepherd was also on hand for the star-studded occasion in New York City.

The talk show host put on a busty display by going topless under a brown suit jacket.

She wore matching slacks and brown stiletto heels.

Tyler Perry turned heads in a Matrix-inspired look consisting of a black vinyl jacket and faux leather pants.

The multi-hyphenate completed his look with black boots and chic glasses.

Shannon Thornton – who stars as ‘Charlise’ in the new crime flick — wowed in a skintight gold chrome gown that highlighted her killer curves.

Shannon Thornton – who stars as ‘Charlise’ in the new crime flick — wowed in a skintight gold chrome gown that highlighted her killer curves

Tyler Perry's House of Payne star Lance Gross oozed confidence as he arrived at the big premiere with his stunning wife Rebecca Jefferson

Jefferson put on a racy display in a sheer off-the-shoulder frock

Tyler Perry’s Sistas star Crystal Hayslett looked edgy chic in a black faux leather jacket with matching boots

Pageant queen Taryn Delanie stunned in a classic black halter dress styled with slingback heels and sparkly stud earrings

Mea Culpa will be available to stream on Netflix starting February 23

Tyler Perry's House of Payne star Lance Gross oozed confidence as he arrived at the big premiere with his stunning wife Rebecca Jefferson.

Tyler Perry’s Sistas star Crystal Hayslett looked edgy chic in a black faux leather jacket with matching boots.

Pageant queen Taryn Delanie stunned in a classic black halter dress styled with slingback heels and sparkly stud earrings.