From fairytale villages to azure waters, MailOnline Travel has picked out 15 of their best snaps

If these photos don't spark your wanderlust - nothing will.

They've been taken by travel couple Danielle Zito and Fede Supital Terron, who document their epic adventures through jaw-dropping photography.

The pair met in 2017 while working on a cruise ship, which was crossing the Atlantic from the Canary Islands in Spain to Miami. But it wasn't until 2021 that they began travelling full-time.

They've now ticked off 75 countries together and post stunning snapshots on their website (scratchyourmapa.com) and Instagram (@scratchyourmapa), where they have raked in 22,500 followers.

With their permission, MailOnline Travel has picked out incredible pictures and videos from their travels.

Globetrotting couple Danielle Zito and Fede Supital Terron have allowed MailOnline Travel to run 15 incredible photos from their adventures. They're pictured above looking out at the striking rock formations in Étretat, a town in Normandy, France

The left photo captures the couple sitting next to the bright-blue waters of Lago di Braies, a beautiful lake in the heart of the Dolomites. On the right, the pair are shown in a transparent canoe enjoying the azure waters of Spanish Point, Bermuda

Danni, from New Jersey, and Fede, from Buenos Aires, said they have been travelling since the moment they met.

The reason they photograph their travels? They said: 'We love photography, and we have always both had a passion for capturing memories to keep for ourselves.'

And they go to great lengths to get the perfect shot, lugging around a 'large backpack' of photography gear with them, which includes a mirrorless camera with various lenses and a drone. They even plan their outfits to 'match the vibe and colours of the destination'.

Their favourite place they've captured? An Island in Yemen named Socotra. Why? They said: 'The sky is always full of stars, the waters are crystal clear, and there are unique landscapes that you can’t find elsewhere.'

The pair use a variety of photography equipment, including drones, to capture their impressive images. This aerial shot shows the two relaxing in the waters of Socotra, an island of the Republic of Yemen in the Indian Ocean

LEFT: Danni and Fede stand on Kjeragbolten, a boulder jammed into a crevice 984m (3,228ft) above sea level on Kjerag mountain in the Lysefjord in Norway. The popular tourist destination can be reached without any hiking equipment. RIGHT: The pair stand atop Trolltunga. One of the most amazing rock formations in Norway, it 'hovers' 700 metres (2,296ft) above Ringedalsvatnet lake

LEFT: Diving head-first into the blue-green waters of Studlagil. They describe this spot on Instagram as the 'coolest canyon in Iceland'. RIGHT: Standing before the cascading Kravica Waterfall in Bosnia & Herzegovina

They picked out Iceland, Norway, Italy and Greece as some of their favourite European destinations. The reason? They said: 'All of them have super friendly people, delicious food, and incredible landscapes.'

And the pair picked out Argentina, El Salvador and Peru as places in the Americas that they 'really love'.

But they haven't been impressed by every country they've visited. The couple said they were left disappointed by Monaco.

They explained: 'It has a ton of hype around it, but truthfully, it's ridiculously overpriced, and not such an attractive destination in our opinion.'

Similarly, Marrakech is another destination they were deceived by.

They explained: 'It’s a city that is very chaotic, and we unfortunately found a lot of people that were trying to scam us, which not a lot of people talk about when they are glamorising Marrakech.'

LEFT: The pair strike a pose in front of a colourful wall in Caminito, an open-air museum and traditional alley in La Boca, a neighbourhood of Buenos Aires. RIGHT: Danni and Fede visited the Libreria Acqua Alta, a quirky bookshop in Venice with steps made from books

LEFT: A starry night in Socotra, where the couple claim 'the sky is always full of stars' and has 'unique landscapes that you can't find elsewhere'. RIGHT: Danni and Fede stand before a beautiful sunrise on a dune on the island

The pair describe travelling as a 'roller coaster', the highs of which, they said, involve sharing moments around the globe, connecting with locals, learning about new cultures and creating lasting friendships.

But the lows include their car breaking down in Mexico, and their photography equipment being stolen in Ecuador.

And, when it comes to their jobs, they said: 'There is often more work than play, and we have to make a lot of sacrifices.'

While they are now able to fund their adventures through content creation, blogging and photography, they said they spent the first two years dipping into their savings, working side jobs and restricting their living expenses.

They sometimes even resorted to 'sleeping in a car, sharing a bed, or living off protein bars'.

The impressive Burj Khalifa occupies the middle of the left photograph. At 830m (2,723ft) in height, it's the world's tallest structure and one of Dubai's most popular attractions. The right image captures the stunning greenery of Val di Funes, a valley in South Tyrol, Italy

The two are pictured here in the ‘fairytale’ village of Saint-Cirq-Lapopie. In their Instagram post for this image, they say ‘it may just be one of the cutest towns in all of France’

They explained: 'Blogs and content creation are no overnight success, and it took us a couple of years before we started to make a real income.

'It's harder than any job we have ever had, but it certainly can be done by anyone that puts their mind to it.'

The secret to their success? They said: 'For us, the number one is always communication. Discussing places you want to travel, the pace and style of travel, and who does what in each job is key.'

For more from Danni and Fede, visit their website scratchyourmapa.com. Or find them on Instagram at www.instagram.com/scratchyourmapa or TikTok www.tiktok.com/@scratchyourmapa.