Holly Willoughby stunned in a plunging red gown as she hosted Dancing On Ice 2024 on Sunday night.

The presenter, 43, wowed in the glamorous number that clung to her gorgeous curves for the ITV show which she now fronts with Stephen Mulhern.

She completed her look with matching red strappy heels and added a touch more elegance with a silver necklace.

Her short blonde tresses were worn in her sleek cropped style and she opted for a glowing makeup look complete with a slick of light pink lip.

She penned in the caption as she shared the look to Instagram ahead of the show: 'Tonight on @dancingonice we celebrate 40 years of @torvillanddeanofficial iconic Bolero… so many special moments and memories in the show tonight. See you on @itv 6:24 (precise!).'

Holly Willoughby stunned in a plunging red gown as she hosted Dancing On Ice 2024 on Sunday night

The presenter, 43, wowed in the glamorous number that clung to her gorgeous curves for the ITV show which she now fronts with Stephen Mulhern

Ahead of the show she took to her Instagram to share a beautiful snap of her look as she tagged the designer

Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean broke their silence on retiring from ice skating on Wednesday morning.

Jayne, 66, and Christopher, 65, skated to victory at the Sarajevo Winter Olympics on Valentine's Day in 1984, winning the gold medal and earning the highest ever score for a single performance.

The British skating duo will embark on one final UK tour next year, which will be their swansong and mark 50 years since they formed their skating partnership in 1975 - before then officially hanging up their skates.

On Wednesday's Good Morning Britain, hosts Ed Balls and Charlotte Hawkins spoke to the pair in their first interview since announcing their retirement.

Live from Sarajevo, where the couple skated to Olympic gold, the iconic duo joined GMB from where it all started to discuss their last farewell tour.

On why the duo felt like now was the right time, Chris said: 'Gosh well 40 years ago is a long time. In actual fact, next year in 2025, we have been skating together for 50 years and we felt that was a really nice round number to say 'we have had a wonderful time but it's time to retire a little bit and hang up the skates'.

'No more touring except for the last tour we are hoping to do next year.'

Jayne added: 'We feel that it will be the last tour but it will be a celebration of everything that we have been through since 1984, winning the Olympics, which opened up the door to lots of other things in the future.'

She completed her look with matching red strappy heels and added a touch more elegance with a silver necklace

Her short blonde tresses were worn in her sleek cropped style and she opted for a glowing makeup look complete with a slick of light pink lip

She was in her element as she opened the show with co-presenter Stephen who wore a smart black suit

They were busy introducing the various celebrity acts

She looked as gorgeous as ever

She is back on our screens after a break following her leaving This Morning

Her and Stephen compliment each other well on the show

Tonight's show will celebrate 40 years of Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean after they announced their retirement

Jayne, 66, and Christopher, 65, skated to victory at the Sarajevo Winter Olympics on Valentine's Day in 1984, winning the gold medal and earning the highest ever score for a single performance

The pair looked as glam as ever on Sunday night's show

Dancing On Ice's Roxy Shahidi and Lou Sanders left the series last Sunday night after a shock double elimination.

In a first for the skating show, the lowest placed couple went straight out of the competition, whilst two others faced the skate off.

After finding herself in the bottom three, Emmerdale's Roxy and her dance partner Sylvain Longchambon were the couple that received the lowest scores and automatically eliminated from the show.

Finding out the news that she would be leaving, host Holly said: 'It's such a brutal way to go out like this. I'm gutted for you.'

Speaking after being voted off, Roxy - who previously sprained her shoulder during training - said she was disappointed not to get a chance to perform in the skate off.

She said: 'I'm really proud of what I've done and what I've learned the whole experience has been incredible.'

Scoring 24.5 from the judges, Jayne said: 'The marks are a little low because you did as assisted jump for the judges challenge.'

She added that she would have liked to see more skating, whilst Christopher Dean agreed saying he wanted her to be a bit more independent.

Judge Oti Mabuse said that she was sad because she felt the performance came up 'a little bit short'.

Comedian Lou Sanders and her partner Colin Grafton ended up in the skate off with Ricky Norwood and Annette Dytrt.

Unfortunately for them, the judges, Oti Mabuse, Jayne, Christopher and guest judge American figure skater Johnny Weird chose Ricky as their winner on the night, leading to Lou's time on the show coming to an end.

Dancing On Ice's Roxy Shahidi (seen) and Lou Sanders left the series last Sunday night after a shock double elimination

After her elimination, Lou (pictured) quipped: 'It's all about never giving up so we'll be back next week'

After her elimination, Lou quipped: 'It's all about never giving up so we'll be back next week.'

She went on: 'I've had the absolute time of my life, thank you. He [Colin] said his insurance has gone up since working with me.'

The jam packed packed show started with a shocking twist as host Stephen announced there would be a double elimination.

Holly - who celebrated turning 43 on the Saturday - also told how there would be a Dancing on Ice first as the lowest placed couple would leave the competition straight away and two more couples would face the skate off.