Bali is the most popular Indonesian island - known for it's scenic beaches and nightlife, attracting crowds of young travellers.

But recently holiday-goers have gone viral on social media for complaining about the paradise island, specifically the 'horrific traffic' in tourist hot-spot of Kuta.

One British travel influencer racked up views for warning her followers about the destination by filming busy roads and rubbish lined beaches.

Corrin, who posts under the handle @cor_98 on TikTok, has said she 'absolutely hates it' and questioned why 'people don't show you this side of things'.

British holidaygoer Corrin, who posts under the handle @cor_98 on TikTok , has said she 'absolutely hates it' in Bali and questioned why 'people don't show you this side of things'

In her first video, posted last week, Corrin said: 'Everyone says come to Bali, it's an amazing place to come - honestly I absolutely hate it, look at this,' as she points the camera towards chaotic traffic.

She adds: 'Traffic is everywhere, look how built up it is, it's awful, you can't even move, you can't even cross the road.

'You stand at a zebra crossing and everyone still goes by. Literally, you're about to just ask yourself to be run over - the traffic is unbearable and I've never seen something like this in my life.

'Honestly, it's changed my perspective completely'.

In another video, she shows viewers Kuta beach, which is lined with rubbish and questioned why people 'don't show you' this side of the area'.

The TikTok has already been seen by more than 680,000 people, with viewers divided in the comments.

Walking along the sand, she says to the camera: 'So I've just arrived at Kuta beach and obviously I know that from my last post I was a little bit negative.

'But unfortunately, I've done so much research in terms of TikTok and googling before I come out here in terms of where to go, and this place came up so I really wanted to try it.

In another video , she shows viewers Kuta beach, which is lined with rubbish and questioned why people 'don't show you' this side of the area'

The now built up and crowded hotspot is also known for it's party-centric atmosphere and being where tourism began in Bali

'Unfortunately, I am so so disappointed with the outcome - just look at this'.

Frustrated, she angrily explains: 'There is literally rubbish all along the waterfront, like it literally goes on the whole entire way, what the actual f***?

'Why don't people show you this? And I'm sorry, I'm so sorry to be the person to explain or tell it, but when I'm looking to book something and I want to make sure that there's good reviews, there's good places to go.

'Why doesn't any influencer or anybody tell me, on TikTok or anything, that the beaches were like this.

'Because this is not what I want. I want something that's nice, relaxing, the beaches are lovely, but it's not.

'The beaches are absolutely awful, what the f*** is this'.

More recently it's become notorious for it's busy traffic, which often sees hundreds of motorbikes and cars lined up along the streets

One viewer argued: 'Babes your in a 3rd world country and if you had researched so much you would see that Kuta is unfortunately like that. Lembongan, Ubud, Susan Dua. The beach where Mari Beach Club is beautiful'.

Another advised: 'Try Uluwatu so many nice beaches Kuta is only good for the shopping centre, it’s more the Benidorm of Bali'.

Someone else admitted: 'Feel like I had the same experience in Bali as you - absolutely hated how unclean & rundown it was. It's not how you see on the internet'.

Others questioned: 'Why go to Kuta' and 'I never understood the hype about Bali， thank you for sharing'.

Kuta, which is situated in the Badung Regency in southern Bali, is a magnet for surfers thanks to it's high waves.

The now built up and crowded hotspot is also known for it's party-centric atmosphere and being where tourism began in Bali.

More recently it's become notorious for it's busy traffic, which often sees hundreds of motorbikes and cars lined up along the streets.

It comes just after another holidaymaker unleashed a furious rant slamming Bali for its horrific traffic and taking aim at influencers for encouraging anyone to go there.

Richard Monckton uploaded a series of TikToks where he flip-flopped between calling the whole island 'f***ing poo' and praising the locals for their hospitality.

What sparked Mr Monckton's initial tirade on Wednesday was Kuta's notoriously chaotic traffic saying it 'stressed him out' and adding that he drastically preferred Thailand.