Jamie Redknapp insisted Manchester United have what it takes to finish in the top four this season.

A 2-1 win at Kenilworth Road on Sunday saw Erik ten Hag's side stretch their unbeaten run in the league to five games and moved them to within five points of fourth-placed Aston Villa.

Rasmus Hojlund's brace in the first ten minutes saw the summer arrival at Old Trafford becoming the youngest player in the history of the Premier League to score in six consecutive matches.

Luton struck back through Carlton Morris but were unable to fashion an equaliser as United's momentum rolls on.

Speaking following the result Redknapp insisted United's new-found confidence could see them secure Champions League football by the end of the season.

Jamie Redknapp insisted Manchester United have what it takes to finish in the top four this season

Rasmus Hojlund brace fired Erik ten Hag's side to victory against Luton at Kenilworth Road on Sunday

Your browser does not support iframes.

'United are absolutely in that mix,' Redknapp said on Sky Sports.

'They're playing well, they've got confidence. They're a lot more enjoyable to watch.'

In his maiden campaign at the club, Ten Hag navigated the difficult departure of Cristiano Ronaldo and led United to third in the league.

The Dutchman also enjoyed success in the cups, winning the EFL Cup and reaching the final of the FA Cup before being defeated by Man City.

This season however, United faltered repeatedly, with the club's woes reaching their climax as they crashed out of the Champions League by finishing bottom of their group and won just two of seven league games in December.

However, Hojlund's recent upturn in form combined with the performances of academy graduates Alejandro Garnacho and Kobbie Mainoo have provided cause for celebration for the club's fanbase, and led to hopes that a top four finish is still achievable.

Erik ten Hag's side have enjoyed a resurgence in recent weeks and haven't lost in 2024

United are now just five points behind Aston Villa in the hunt for a Champions League place

'Sometimes you've got to give managers a bit of time,' Redknapp continued.

'There's a bit of confidence and belief in how they're playing. I'm sure Tottenham and Villa will be looking over their shoulder.

'With what's happening at Liverpool there has to be disruption. United have to be in a position to strike. Who knows what will happen to Man City? United have to be ready to strike.'