Neal Maupay has reignited his feud with James Maddison after their now-infamous clash during Tottenham's 3-2 win over Brentford last month.

It all started when Maupay opened the scoring in the pulsating encounter, with the striker mocking Maddison by copying his darts throw celebration, as team-mate Ivan Toney joined in on the act.

Maddison and Maupay shared a heated exchange after the goal before the Spurs star hit out at the Frenchman when speaking to TNT Sports post-match.

The two players then referenced each other in separate posts on Instagram, with Maddison poking fun at Maupay for not scoring enough goals to have his own celebration, while the Bees forward said he had scored more goals and had fewer relegations in his career than his rival.

And, speaking to The Times, Maupay reflected on the incident a few weeks on and admitted he found the whole situation entertaining.

Neal Maupay has reignited his feud with James Maddison after their now-infamous clash during Tottenham's 3-2 win over Brentford last month

Maupay and Maddison clashed after Maupay mocked the Spurs midfielder's celebration

Reflecting on the incident, the 27-year-old admitted that he found the whole situation 'funny'

Maddison had claimed Maupay hadn't scored enough goals to have his own celebration

Your browser does not support iframes.

'He took it really personally, it’s funny,' he said. 'I threw a dart and he got so offended he posted my picture on his Instagram.

'But if I give a little something, I have got to be able to take it as well.'

Maupay has become known as a pantomime villain in recent years, with his antics winding up several clubs and players across the top flight, including Man City's Kyle Walker last week.

The forward - who claims he has 'never crossed the line' - has been in impressive form this season, scoring five goals since returning to Brentford on loan after a dismal spell at Everton.

However, the 27-year-old dismissed suggestions his celebration against Spurs backfired, with Brennan Johnson later mocking the Frenchman as Ange Postecoglou's side scored three goals in eight second half minutes to turn the game around.

He added: 'We didn’t lose against Tottenham because of my celebration.

'They’d be in big trouble in the league if they needed a player to wind them up to win a game.'

Following the heated clash on January 31, when asked what he had said to Maupay on the pitch, Maddison told TNT Sports: 'I just said to him he probably hasn't scored enough goals of his own in the last few years to have his own celebration so he had to copy mine.

'Short story, but it ended well for us anyway.'

Maupay hit back at Maddison by taking aim at his rival in a post on his Instagram account

Maddison did the same and posted a photo of Maupay, as the Bees star responded 'rent free'

The Brentford striker later hit back on Instagram writing: 'Gutted we couldn't get the win. More goals and less relegations in my career than James Maddison. We go again Monday Bees.'

The Tottenham star also posted a picture of Maupay on his Instagram doing the celebration, alongside the caption: 'A short story... COYS'.

Maupay responded to Maddison's post writing: 'Ahaha rent free,' with kissing emojis.

Meanwhile, Brentford and Spurs both suffered defeats to Liverpool and Wolves respectively this weekend, with the Bees remaining 14th, while Postecoglou's side dropped to fifth.