The boss of Morrisons has stepped up the supermarket's price war with Aldi and Lidl to win back customers.

Morrisons lost its status as Britain's fourth-biggest grocer nearly two years ago because shoppers have been switching to the German discounters.

Last month new chief executive Rami Baitieh pledged to tempt back disillusioned consumers, admitting there was 'work to do'.

The supermarket will lower the cost of staples – from cornflakes to baby wipes – to match Aldi and Lidl.

The grocer will check the prices of hundreds of products against its rivals twice a week and lower them if needed.

Back to basics: Morrisons will lower the cost of staples - from cornflakes to baby wipes - to match Aldi and Lidl

The biggest British supermarkets – Tesco, Sainsbury's and Asda – already run their own price match schemes.

Baitieh, who took over from David Potts in November, is hoping to steer the beleaguered business into better fortunes. The latest industry data from Kantar shows Morrisons holds an 8.8pc slice of the market, compared with 9.1pc a year ago.

Chief customer and marketing officer Rachel Eyre, said today: 'We want to reassure our customers that we have hundreds of products that are the same price or cheaper – with the quality they've come to expect from us – than those available at Aldi and Lidl.'

Baitieh said in his first financial update at the helm: 'I am sure [customers] will come back'. He added: 'Since the pandemic, Morrisons has not been on peak form.

'Our market share has slipped, slowly but consistently, our like-for- likes – although on an improving and encouraging trend now – have been below the pack for a while, and the switching data has not been encouraging.

'Although we have many structural, operational and cultural strengths, we must not be satisfied with our recent performance.'

While Morrisons has been losing market share, Aldi took 9.3 per cent compared with 9.2 per cent the year before, and Lidl took 7.5 per cent, up from 7.1 per cent. Tesco and Sainsbury's also emerged as Christmas winners.

Morrisons accumulated mountains of debt – thought to total more than £6billion – when US private equity firm Clayton, Dubilier & Rice bought it for £7billion in 2021. This debt has come under pressure due to rising interest rates.