Adele has ordered concert bosses to build her dozens of extra stages for her upcoming German residency.

The Grammy and Brit winning artist insisted that she had to perform to audiences in all corners of the open-air bespoke arena, based at Munich Messe in August.

However the star is not able to trek there on a golf cart so plans to walk FIVE miles a night while playing her new summer shows in Germany.

The music superstar revealed that she will be strolling around the stadium to sing different hits to separate crowd parts over ten nights.

The London born star wants to share the intimacy created from her Vegas shows, with 4100 guests, to the 80,000 strong crowd in Munich.

Adele has ordered concert bosses to build her dozens of extra stages for her upcoming German residency

The Grammy and Brit winning artist insisted that she had to perform to audiences in all corners of the open-air bespoke arena, based at Munich Messe in August

Adele admits she has lost all inhibitions and nerves at live shows, which have impacted her for 15 years, as her Vegas experience was 'f**ing sweet'.

Adele opened up about the summer shows on stage at her Caesars Palace residency this weekend, where she also dropped f bombs galore.

She also admitted that son Angelo, 11, dreams of being a Premier League player.

Adele revealed her Europe plans as she boasted about upping her workout sessions during her days off from work.

Adele said of her German return: 'Vegas will forever hold the most special place in my heart. I've loved it.

'But anyway, I want to be able to connect with the crowd (in Munich). I was like, build me a stage out in the crowd.

'And they were like, 'well, we can't get you there unless you walk there on a stage. I'm obviously exaggerating a little bit, but I think I'll probably get a good four or five miles in a night walking.

'So I really need to get my stamina up. So I'm working out twice a day. All I have been doing is that I'm training to be an athlete because I have some shows in the summer, I'm playing 10 nights in Munich...

However the star is not able to trek there on a golf cart so plans to walk FIVE miles a night while playing her new summer shows in Germany

'I'm very excited and it's a whole new show and it is such a big audience, which I've done before and always felt a little bit disassociated, coz I am like how is it possible there's a hundred thousand people here to see one person. That doesn't make any sense.

'And it always felt so far away. This show has absolutely just made me not scared of performing in any capacity anymore. So I'm excited about this show.' And so that's really all I've been doing.'

Adele famously cancelled her initial residency start in January 22 - just hours before the opening night.

However she overcame a 'career low point' to find a new found confidence in performing after suffering from serious stage fright,

'The safety that this room has given me within myself and with my music has changed my life forever. I am so glad. Some people thought that I was just going to keep extending, but this really is the end.

'Every time I say that, I get so emotional because this has honestly been the highlight of my week for two years and after the way that it first started or didn't start, rather, that was one of the lowest I think I've ever been in terms of my career and stuff like that...

'And I wasn't sure if it would be bittersweet rather than just sweet. And it's been f***ing sweet. So absolutely lovely, and I'm genuinely going to miss it...

'I love the routine it's given me. I have loved getting to know you and for a very long time I was very, very scared of not just the big crowd, just crowds in general because I've sort of touched on the whole show...

Thousands of seats remain unsold for Adele's concert dates in Munich, after the star received backlash for sky-high prices (seen in 2022)

'It's not very normal, but it's also very normal for it to not film anymore. So I feel way more settled in that now.'

Adele was dropping F bombs galore as she recapped her week to her audience.

She touched on son Angelo's career hopes, saying: 'My son is on the school basketball team and their team won this week, which is very exciting. They are 11 - what the f*** are you laughing at...

'He's also British. He wants to be a soccer star. He doesn't want to be a basketball.'

As the audience reacted to the Premiership dream, Adele then asked the crowd: 'Do we have soccer fans here tonight? Tottenham Hotspur fans tonight?' But when they jeered, she hit back 'f** off.'

'This really feels like a sports crowd. I think I've told you f*** off five times and I've only sung two songs. I am from Tottenham. Do we have any Man United fans? Have you ever been to Manchester?',

Adele's German shows have been criticized by fans for 'ridiculous' ticket prices.

The highest price ticket stands at over €700 (£598) if fans want to be front row.

Taking to X, formerly known as Twitter , fans claimed the prices were 'criminal' and nearly impossible for 'regular people to see artists live'

Already seats have been snapped up by second hand market sites who are flogging them for much higher fees.

Adele had upset fans in the past with her ticket fees on her Weekends With residency opening shows in November 2022.

Tickets in the front row cost as much as £30k, while other VIP packages had seats and hotel deals set at around £200k.

On Vividseats - a second hand seller - the highest spots cost over $40k for Adele at Caesars Palace Colosseum venue, where she often engages with fans in the front rows.

Last year music analytics company Pollstar ranked U2 are the band that music fans are happy to splash the most cash to see live, especially with their groundbreaking Las Vegas' Sphereshows.

But the Irish band heads up a new chart which shows that British rockers over the age of 60 are the most popular for audiences when it comes to opening up their wallets - compared to younger chart stars.

Dublin stars U2 had audiences shell out a staggering £305.14 on average per set inside the £3bn technological centric, screen and stage experience on the Sin City strip.

Their closest Brit rival this year for price earning per ticket was former Beatle Sir Paul McCartney, whose limited stadia gigs saw fans part with £128.81 a shot.

The Farewell Yellow Brick Road concert run of Sir Elton became the highest grossing tour of all time in the summer.

Adele, 35, has faced backlash over her 'extortionate' priced tickets for her Munich concert in the summer (pictured in 2023)

The three hour extravaganza saw people splash out an average sum of £124.80.

Fellow 1970s debut rockers Queen, featuring founders Roger Taylor and Brian May, remain one of the hottest tickets on the planet at £119.80 per seat with US star Adam Lambert on lead vocals.

Ex Genesis frontman Peter Gabriel's performances have been loved by fans who have paid £100.27 for a place in arenas and stadia.

Crooner Sir Rod Stewart keeps wowing crowds at £92.70 on average, while synth pop pioneers Depeche Mode still splash $118.78 a head.

Chris Martin - a sprightly 46 - and his band Coldplay band mates cost audiences £88.93 a shot.

Meanwhile Birmingham boys Duran Duran, led by 65-year-old Simon Le Bon, will set back a crowd £84.23

They are around the same price range as 29-year-old Harry Styles £86.08 and Ed Sheeran £82.07 - who are the youngest Brit entertainers bringing in most per seat at their performances.

Styles enjoyed revenue of £228m from his final 59 Harry's House shows. Sheeran banked £210m from 54 stadium nights.

Ex Pink Floyd star Roger Waters, 80, comes in at number 12 in the top 100 of biggest 2023 tours with his seats averaging £80.74 ($103.45).