Three years after winning his first People's Choice Award for Action Movie Star, Simu Liu took to the stage to host this year's ceremony.

The 34-year-old actor was seen on stage wearing three different stylish suits throughout the night.

His hosting gig came a few months after he was spotted at the Game Awards wearing an ankle brace after revealing he tore his Achilles tendon.

Liu's first suit was showed off on the red carpet, rocking an all-maroon suit, without a tie.

His pale purple dress shirt was left slightly unbuttoned, showing off a gold chain from Fernando Jorge dangling around his neck, with a brown watch peeking out from his coat.

The 34-year-old actor was seen on stage wearing three different stylish suits throughout the night

Liu's first suit was showed off on the red carpet, rocking an all-maroon suit, without a tie.

People's Choice Awards 2024 Winners At a Glance

Music Male artist of the year: Jung Kook (WINNER) Female artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Male country artist of the year: Jelly Roll (WINNER) Female country artist of the year: Lainey Wilson (WINNER) Male Latin artist of the year: Bad Bunny (WINNER) Female Latin artist of the year: Shakira (WINNER) Pop artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Hip-hop artist of the year: Nicki Minaj (WINNER) R&B artist of the year: Beyoncé (WINNER) New artist of the year: Ice Spice (WINNER) Group/duo of the year: Stray Kids (WINNER) Song of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, “Vampire” (WINNER) Album of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, Guts (WINNER) Collaboration song of the year: Nicki Minaj & Ice Spice with Aqua, “Barbie World” (WINNER) Concert tour of the year: Taylor Swift, The Eras Tour (WINNER) Movies Movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Action movie of the year: The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Drama movie of the year: Oppenheimer (WINNER) Male movie star of the year: Ryan Gosling, Barbie (WINNER) Female movie star of the year: Margot Robbie, Barbie (WINNER) Margot Robbie is a leading contender for female movie star of the year for Barbie Action movie star of the year: Rachel Zegler, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie star of the year: Jennifer Lawrence, No Hard Feelings (WINNER) Drama movie star of the year Jenna Ortega, Scream VI (WINNER) Movie performance of the year America Ferrera, Barbie (WINNER) TV Show of the year: Grey’s Anatomy (WINNER) Comedy show of the year: Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Drama show of the year: The Last of Us (WINNER) Sci-fi/fantasy show of the year: Loki (WINNER) Reality show of the year: The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition show of the year: The Voice (WINNER) Bingeworthy show of the year: The Summer I Turned Pretty (WINNER) Male TV star of the year: Pedro Pascal, The Last of Us (WINNER) Female TV star of the year: Selena Gomez, Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Comedy TV star of the year: Jeremy Allen White, The Bear (WINNER) Drama TV star of the year: Jennifer Aniston, The Morning Show (WINNER) TV performance of the year Billie Eilish, Swarm (WINNER) Reality TV star of the year Khloé Kardashian, The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition contestant of the year Ariana Madix, Dancing with the Stars (WINNER) Daytime talk show of the year The Kelly Clarkson Show (WINNER) Nighttime talk show of the year The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon (WINNER) Host of the year Jimmy Fallon, That’s My Jam (WINNER) Pop Culture Social celebrity of the year Taylor Swift (WINNER) Comedy act of the year Chris Rock, Selective Outrage (WINNER) Athlete of the year Travis Kelce (WINNER) Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

The actor was sporting the early makings of a mustache and goatee, completing his first look with matching maroon pants, socks and suede shoes.

He was seen on the red carpet posing with his girlfriend Allison Hsu along with his Barbie co-star America Ferrera.

His next look was seen on stage, rocking an icy blue suit coat, though this time without either a dress shirt or a tie.

The Marvel star also donned a different necklace inside the arena with this icy blue suit sans shirt and tie.

He completed his second look with matching icy blue pants for his first on-stage look of the night.

Liu's third look was a dark blue suit coat with a light pink dress shirt, also slightly unbuttoned, showing off a dangling necklace.

He completed his final look with matching dark blue pants for the annual event, which he first attended in 2021.

He won the Action Movie Star award for his portrayal of the title character in Marvel's Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings.

The actor was sporting the early makings of a mustache and goatee, completing his first look with matching maroon pants, socks and suede shoes

The Marvel star also donned a different necklace inside the arena with this icy blue suit sans shirt and tie

Liu's third look was a dark blue suit coat with a light pink dress shirt, also slightly unbuttoned, showing off a dangling necklace

He completed his final look with matching dark blue pants for the annual event, which he first attended in 2021

He won the Action Movie Star award for his portrayal of the title character in Marvel's Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings

The Marvel star, 34 — who recently dropped out of a Disney event due to 'health scares' — tore his achilles tendon back in October.

Though he was feeling good on Thursday, Simu announced last week that he was dropping out of Disney World's Candlelight Processional after suffering 'health scares'.

'I'm so absolutely gutted to have to drop out of this year's Candlelight Processional at Disney World,' the Barbie star, 34, wrote in a statement posted to his Instagram Stories.

'For those who were looking forward to seeing me, know that I was equally looking forward to be a part of your holidays,' the actor — who recently enjoyed a date night with girlfriend Allison Hsu — went on.

'The health of myself and my family are of paramount importance to me. After all, that's the spirit of this season! And so, after some health scares I've made the difficult decision to stay at home.'

'Something tells me this isn't the last you've seen of me At Candlelight though... let's all keep fingers crossed for 2024!'