Prince Harry put the furor surrounding his latest television appearance on ice today - quite literally - when he tried his hand at yet another winter sport in Vancouver today: wheelchair curling.

Having already ticked off skeleton sledding and sit-skiing from his list of winter activities, the Duke of Sussex, 39, seemed delighted to have the chance to put his snow skills to the test yet again - although wife Meghan Markle once again opted out of the action, instead choosing to put on a glamorous display of support for her husband from the sidelines.

Hours after he admitted that he has 'considered' applying for American citizenship during a tell-all interview with GMA - in which he also expressed his hope that his father King Charles' cancer diagnosis might have a 'reunifying effect' on his family - Harry took to the ice for another fun-filled activity.

So eager was Harry to get involved in the sport that he actually arrived at the Hillcrest Community Centre in Vancouver 90 minutes ahead of the official 11am start time, DailyMail.com can exclusively reveal.

Prince Harry put the furor surrounding his latest television appearance on ice today - quite literally - when he tried his hand at yet another winter sport today: wheelchair curling

Meghan Markle put on a very glamorous display in Vancouver today when she watched Prince Harry try his hand at wheelchair curling - hours after the Duke's latest tell-all interview aired

The Duchess of Sussex, 42, looked incredibly elegant in a $1,295 Sentaler camel-colored coat and brown gloves - having opted out of the curling session

Harry went head-to-head with Vancouver native Michael Buble on the ice, with the pair competing against one another while Meghan watched on and cheered

Before giving the sport a go, Harry received a supportive shoulder rub from Michael - who admitted to the crowd that he had 'sadly' tried curling in the past

Prince Harry seemed eager to review his performance with his wife as soon as he stepped off the ice

After the action on the ice concluded, Meghan and Harry were seen strolling out of the venue hand-in-hand, before making their way to the airport to fly back to California

Meanwhile Meghan, who looked incredibly elegant in a $1,295 Sentaler camel-colored coat and long brown gloves, made her way to the venue separately, arriving shortly before the official event was due to kick off.

When the pair did make their official appearance, they spent several minutes chatting to athletes close to the locker rooms before making their way onto the ice to join a team of wheelchair curlers for a demonstration of the sport - which will also appear at the Invictus Games winter edition next year.

Also on hand was Canadian crooner Michael Buble - a long-time supporter of the Games - as well as a camera crew, who have been following the Sussexes throughout their trip.

In addition to being filmed for today's GMA interview, the couple have also been accompanied by a camera crew for the Invictus Games, suggesting that they are working on another on-screen project that has yet to be announced.

While Meghan clapped and cheered from the sidelines alongside Michael's wife Luisana Lopilato, Harry and Michael went head-to-head on the ice, competing against one another in the curling competition.

The pair were both given a demonstration - during which Michael admitted that he had 'sadly' tried his hand at curling in the past - before Harry readily volunteered the singer to go first on the ice.

Harry yelled and cheered as he put his skills to the test on the third day of the Sussexes' trip to Canada, where they are celebrating the one-year countdown to the Invictus Games

The Duke looked happy and carefree during the curling session - which came just hours after his latest tell-all interview aired on Good Morning America

Although Meghan opted not to join in the fun, she showed plenty of support for her husband from the sidelines, where she put on a very elegant display in a camel-colored coat

The Duchess of Sussex was joined on the sidelines by Michael's wife, Argentine actress and model Luisana Lopilato

Meghan couldn't take the smile off her face as she supported her husband

After giving wheelchair curling a go, Harry stood out on the ice to make a speech to the crowd

'This guy!' Harry said, pointing at Michael, when asked who would be first to take their shot.

Unfazed, the Vancouver-born popstar gamely told the crowd: 'Ladies and gentlemen of the press, prepare to see your hometown boy do well!'

Next up was Harry, who received plenty of encouragement - and even a quick shoulder rub - from Michael, before making his way onto the ice, with mixed results.

While his first shot failed to yield the finish he wanted, his second go was met with encouraging shouts of 'good hit' from onlookers.

Harry and Meghan are on the final day of a three-day trip to Canada to mark one year to go until the 2025 Invictus Games which will be held in Whistler, British Columbia.

Day two saw Harry whoop with delight as he tried out a skeleton bobsled – hitting a top speed of 99kmph [61mph] – watched by Meghan who filmed him on her iPhone.

The pair also met with Nigerian power lifter and ex-soldier Peacemaker Azuegbulam who also tried out the skeleton – despite being a double amputee who had never seen snow before.

The Duchess of Sussex looked in great spirits, despite the couple being dogged by controversy over the past few days over the rebranding of their Sussex.com website

Meghan watched on a cheered as her husband addressed the crowds - before the couple made their way to the airport to return to Los Angeles, where they will reunite with their two kids

Both Meghan and Luisana seemed thoroughly amused by their husbands' antics on the ice

Harry put on a very animated display on the ice - although his wheelchair curling performance came with mixed results

While his first shot failed to yield the finish he wanted, his second go was met with encouraging shouts of 'good hit' from onlookers

Harry wore a casual ensemble of black jeans and a padded Eddie Bauer vest out on the ice

Meghan was smiling from ear to ear as the pair wrapped up the final day of their Canada trip

Speaking to DailyMail.com, Peacemaker said he was thrilled to be reunited with the couple after being introduced to them at Invictus Games in Düsseldorf, Germany, last year where he won a gold medal in the powerlifting.

Now preparing to take part in the skeleton competition at the 2025 Games, despite only making his debut on Thursday, Peacemaker said sport had helped him come to terms with the injuries he sustained during a firefight with Boko Haram terrorists in November 2020.

He said: ‘At first I felt ashamed because of my injuries but then I was introduced to the Games and began with playing volleyball. Now I feel good, now I feel recovered.

‘I am proud to be the first Invictus champion from Africa and I feel recharged. It totally changed my mindset.’

The appearance at Hillcrest Community Centre – a multi-sport complex run by the city of Vancouver – came a few hours after the couple appeared on Good Morning America, where Harry insisted 'I love my family' and said he 'jumped on a plane' to visit the King 'as soon as I could' after speaking on the phone about his cancer diagnosis.

The 39-year-old also revealed he was 'grateful' to have seen his father Charles III in person and hopes the diagnosis can have a 'reunifying effect' on the Royal Family.

Camera crews from ABC have been following the couple throughout their time in Canada and were seen on Thursday conducting an interview next to the track at the Whistler Sliding Centre.

The Duke watched on intently as Michael tried to best him in the competition

The two men were seen laughing and joking as they received a quick briefing on the sport

Having arrived at the Hillcrest Community Centre 90 minutes ahead of the official event start time, Harry, 39, was then seen chatting with several athletes before trying the sport himself

Prince Harry was so eager to kick off his curling session that he arrived at the venue an hour and a half before the event was officially due to begin - and took time speaking with athletes

Meghan put on a very chic display in black jeans, accessorizing her look with a pair of chunky gold earrings

Michael and Luisana enjoyed a sweet embrace while they stood alongside Meghan as Harry made a speech to round up the Sussexes' Canada trip

On Wednesday, the pair made their appearance on the slopes of the Whistler Blackcomb Mountain flanked by GMA correspondent Will Reeve – son of the late Superman actor Christopher.

The trip also came after the couple became embroiled in rows over the rebranding of their website to Sussex.com, Harry’s 30-minute meeting with his cancer-stricken father in London and criticism over the Sussexes’ heavy use of private jets.

Despite the swirl of controversy, the Duke and Duchess have appeared unaffected during their trip and were seen beaming in exclusive DailyMail.com photos beaming as they left a romantic Valentine’s Day dinner in Whistler on Wednesday night.

Earlier that day, the couple met First Nations youth ambassadors representing the native Canadian tribes on whose land the Games are taking place.

The duo privately toured the Squamish Lil’wat Cultural Center in Whistler where they were shown around by Chief Nelson and Wilson Williams and met artists who created the new Invictus Games logo for the event.

In a statement, Harry and Meghan said: ‘The evening and presentation were extremely meaningful.

‘IG2025 and the couple could not be more proud to share the artists’ piece with the world. The couple recognizes the significance of the First Nation communities welcoming the Invictus Games onto their sacred land and are thankful for their warmth and hospitality.’

Harry and Meghan arrived separately at the venue, with the Duke arriving around 90 minutes before the event's official 11AM start time

Meanwhile Meghan made her entrance just moments before the pair's official appearance was due to begin, arriving at the venue with a legion of security guards

Harry and Meghan's appearance at the wheelchair curling event came just hours after his latest interview with Good Morning America aired on ABC

The couple are expected to head home to Montecito later today to be reunited with children Archie, four, and Lilibet, two.

Prince Harry and Meghan's latest appearance - which is the last of their planned engagements for the trip - comes just hours after the Duke opened up about his father's cancer diagnosis and his thoughts on applying from US citizenship in a wide-ranging interview with Good Morning America.

The Duke also spoke with host Will Reeve, the son of late Superman star Christopher Reeve, about how much he is enjoying life as a father in California - after telling the morning show how 'grateful' he was to have been able to see King Charles in person.

During the chat, Harry insisted that he 'loves his family', noting that he 'jumped on a plane' to the UK 'as soon as he could' after Charles told him about his cancer diagnosis over the phone - and saying that he hopes his father's illness might help to have a 'reunifying effect' on the royal family.

'Um, look, I love my family,' the father-of-two said when asked by Will how the meeting with his father had impacted him 'emotionally'.

'The fact that I was able to get on a plane and go and see him and spend any time with him, I'm grateful for that.'

After Will explained that he has 'found in my own life that sort of an illness in the family can have a galvanizing or a sort of reunifying effect for a family,' he asked Harry: 'Is that possible in this case?'

The Duke then responded: 'Absolutely. Yeah, I'm sure.'