Real Madrid midfielder Jude Bellingham has been pictured in training after Getafe reported him to LaLiga over an alleged slur aimed at Mason Greenwood.

The two English players saw out their first meeting of the season following Greenwood's move to LaLiga side Getafe in September of last year and Bellingham's signing with Real Madrid in June.

The 22-year-old forward mutually agreed to leave former side Manchester United on loan following the conclusion of an internal investigation into the player's conduct.

Greenwood had previously been charged with attempted rape, assault, and coercive behaviour in January 2022 but charges were dropped on February 2023 by the Crown Prosecution Service following the withdrawal of key witnesses.

Thursday's clash saw Bellingham land a crunching tackle on the Getafe player to force the ball out of play, and when footage of the incident circulated on social media, fans believe they noticed the England international mutter the word 'rapist' at the forward.

Real Madrid's Jude Bellingham has been pictured in training after Getafe reported him

The England international is expected to start against Atletico Madrid on Sunday evening

Bellingham (white) allegedly aimed a slur at Mason Greenwood (blue) during the match against Getafe on Thursday

Your browser does not support iframes.

Bellingham was pictured all smiles in training on Saturday ahead of the Madrid derby against Atletico Madrid on Sunday.

The England international is expected to start the game and will hope to continue his blistering form this season.

Following the incident at Getafe, a lip reader exclusively told Mail Sport that the insult Bellingham used on Greenwood was in fact 'rapist'

In the aftermath of the clip's circulation on social media, Getafe decided to take action, asking the game's referee Ricardo de Burgos Bengoetxea to record the alleged insult in his match report.

Doing so could yet subject Bellingham to a disciplinary procedure from the Spanish football federation (RFEF), although without audio, it could be a hard case to prove.

Getafe have also reported the incident to the LaLiga delegate present at Estadio Coliseum to record the alleged insult, although the club has not levelled a formal complaint at Bellingham.