This is the incredible moment NASA's retired Space Shuttle Endeavour was hoisted into place and paired with a huge external fuel tank and rocket boosters at a display at the Los Angeles science museum.

Footage from last night shows a massive crane delicately lifting the orbiter, which is 122 feet (37 meters) long and has a 78-foot (24-meter) wingspan, into the partially built Samuel Oschin Air and Space Center at the California Science Center in Exposition Park.

The building will be completed around Endeavour before the display opens to the public in 2025.

The 20-story-tall display stands atop an 1,800-ton (1,633-metric ton) concrete slab supported by six so-called base isolators to protect Endeavour from earthquakes.

All parts of the vertical launch configuration are authentic components of the shuttle system, including the rust-colored external tank, which was flight-qualified.

A massive crane delicately began lifting the orbiter, which is 122 feet (37 meters) long and has a 78-foot (24-meter) wingspan, into the partially built Samuel Oschin Air and Space Center at the California Science Center in Exposition Park last night (pictured)

The building (pictured earlier this month before the fuel tank and shuttle was lifted in) will be completed around Endeavour before the display opens to the public in 2025

The retired NASA Space Shuttle Endeavour, covered in protective white wrapping, is lifted into place to be affixed to the giant orange external tank and twin solid rocket boosters at the California Science Center

People watch as the retired NASA Space Shuttle Endeavour is lifted into place at the California Science Center on January 29

Endeavour flew 25 missions between 1992 and 2011, when NASA's shuttle program ended.

The shuttle was flown to Los Angeles International Airport in 2012 atop a NASA Boeing 747 and then created a spectacle as it was inched through tight city streets to Exposition Park.

The external tank arrived by barge earlier this month and made a similar trip across the city.

The shuttle was initially displayed horizontally in a temporary exhibit hall. A groundbreaking ceremony for the Air and Space Center was held in 2022 on the 11th anniversary of Endeavour's final return from space.

The process of assembling the shuttle system in vertical configuration was dubbed 'Go for Stack,' an informal term for putting together rocket components for launch.

Crews prepare to lift Space Shuttle Endeavour into the site of the future Samuel Oschin Air and Space Center on Monday, January 29

Space shuttle Endeavor is lifted by crane into its new permanent location at The California Science Center in Los Angeles, California, January 29

Space Shuttle Endeavour is lifted into the site of the future Samuel Oschin Air and Space Center on Monday, January 29, in Los Angeles

Space Shuttle Endeavor was lifted into position by a crane. The museum is moving every component of the shuttle into place individually to install the display

Space Shuttle Endeavour is lifted into the site of the future Samuel Oschin Air and Space Center on Monday

The future Samuel Oschin Air and Space Center, where the shuttle will be displayed, is expected to open in 2025

Space Shuttle Endeavour is lifted into the site of the future Samuel Oschin Air and Space Center

The retired NASA Space Shuttle Endeavour, covered in protective white wrapping, is moved in preparation for being lifted into place on January 26

NASA Space Shuttle Endeavour's massive orange external tank, ET-94, is moved before being lifted into place in a full 20-story space shuttle stack at the California Science Center on January 10

The retired Space Shuttle Endeavour external tank, ET-94, the last flight-qualified liquid hydrogen external tank, is hanged vertically from a massive crane to moved into a 20-story vertical display position on Friday, January 12

It began in July with precise installation of the bottom segments of the side boosters, known as aft skirts, for the first time outside of a NASA facility.

In use, the boosters would be attached to the external tank to help the shuttle's main engines lift off.

READ MORE: Giant 154ft-long space shuttle fuel tank crawls through the streets of Los Angeles to its new home at California Science Center Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sciencetech/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

The 116-foot-long (35.3-meter-long) rocket motors were trucked to Los Angeles from the Mojave Desert in October and were installed the following month.

In all, NASA operated five shuttles in space.

Shuttle Challenger and its crew were lost in a launch accident January 28, 1986.

Columbia and its crew were lost during return from orbit February 1, 2003.

Retired shuttles Atlantis and Discovery and the test ship Enterprise, which did not go to space, are on display across the country.

Atlantis is at Kennedy Space Center, Florida, where it is displayed as if in orbit with its payload doors open and robotic arm extended.

Discovery rests on its landing gear at the National Air and Space Museum's Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center in Chantilly, Virginia.

Enterprise, which was released from a carrier aircraft for approach and landing tests, is displayed at the Intrepid Museum in New York.