It's been 13 years since she stole the show in that figure-hugging dress at her sister Catherine’s wedding – lighting up social media and earning the title Her Royal Hotness.

But despite having three children since, the Princess of Wales's younger sibling Pippa Middleton appears every inch as svelte as she did on that historic day as she strolls along a beach on the Caribbean island of St Barts.

Showing off her toned physique in a £232 bikini by luxury swimwear brand Vix, the 40-year-old looks sensational.

Pippa and her husband, James Matthews, are staying at his parents’ exclusive hotel, Eden Rock, on the sun-kissed island.

But while his wife looked suitably glamorous at a resort that attracts the likes of Brad Pitt and Leonardo DiCaprio, James rather let the side down.

It's been 13 years since she stole the show in that figure-hugging dress at her sister Catherine’s wedding – lighting up social media and earning the title Her Royal Hotness

But despite having three children since, the Princess of Wales 's younger sibling Pippa Middleton appears every inch as svelte as she did on that historic day as she strolls along a beach on the Caribbean island of St Barts

Pippa was joined by her young family, and got stuck in building sandcastles on the beach

Even his chic £320 swimming shorts from the Eden Rock shop can’t distract from the impression the 48-year-old banker forgot to apply suncream as he took out a hydrofoil board – similar to a surfboard but with ‘wings’ underneath which help lift it out of the water.

Before her marriage in 2017, adrenaline junkie Pippa took part in the 3,000-mile cycling Race Across America, the 6.5km Bosphorus Cross-Continental Skiing Race and the London to Brighton Bike Ride.

She also participated with James and brother-in-law Spencer Matthews in a 47-mile swimming competition in Sweden to raise money for the Michael Matthews Foundation, a charity set up in remembrance of her husband’s brother Michael, who died while descending from Mount Everest in 1999.

But she has been forced to cut back on her regime after becoming a mum. ‘Running and fitness still form part of my weekly routine but not to the level it was before,’ she has admitted.

While her sister frolics in the sun, the Princess of Wales is recovering from abdominal surgery 4,000 miles away on the Sandringham Estate.

The sister of the Princess of Wales looked sensational in a bright green bikini

Pippa and her husband, James Matthews, are staying at his parents’ exclusive hotel, Eden Rock, on the sun-kissed island

But while his wife looked suitably glamorous at a resort that attracts the likes of Brad Pitt and Leonardo DiCaprio , James rather let the side down

Before her marriage in 2017, adrenaline junkie Pippa took part in the 3,000-mile cycling Race Across America, the 6.5km Bosphorus Cross-Continental Skiing Race and the London to Brighton Bike Ride

She also participated with James and brother-in-law Spencer Matthews in a 47-mile swimming competition in Sweden to raise money for the Michael Matthews Foundation

Pippa Middleton stands on a floating deck in St Barts, where she is with her family

It was revealed yesterday that the Prince of Wales will be attending the Bafta film awards in London alone on Sunday as Kate recovers from the procedure in Norfolk.

William, who is president of the British Academy of Film and Television Arts (Bafta), is attending his first high-profile royal engagement since his wife's operation in January.

Initially, it was thought he would miss the event on Sunday at the Southbank Centre's Royal Festival Hall.

Last year, he attended the ceremony along with the Princess of Wales, where they met award-winners Cate Blanchett, Austin Butler and Emma Mackey.

It was revealed yesterday that the Prince of Wales will be attending the Bafta film awards in London alone as Kate recovers from the procedure in Norfolk

William, who is president of the British Academy of Film and Television Arts (Bafta), is attending his first high-profile royal engagement since his wife's operation in January

Initially, it was thought he would miss the event on Sunday at the Southbank Centre's Royal Festival Hall

Kate had surgery on January 16 at the London Clinic and has since returned to Adelaide Cottage in Windsor to be with their three children

Pippa wore a pair of fashionable sunglasses as she headed towards the water

Showing off her toned physique in a £232 bikini by luxury swimwear brand Vix, the 40-year-old looks sensational

Kate had surgery on January 16 at the London Clinic and has since returned to Adelaide Cottage in Windsor to be with their three children.

Since the royal health announcements, which have also included his father the King's unspecified cancer diagnosis and separate prostate treatment, William has attended few events.

He gave a speech at a London charity engagement raising funds for London's Air Ambulance Charity's new fleet of helicopters earlier this month.

Christopher Nolan's epic biopic about atomic bomb creator J Robert Oppenheimer is expected to be a big winner at the Baftas after Oppenheimer received 13 nominations.

William has been the president of Bafta since 2010 and Kate first attended the event with her husband in 2017.

James Matthews in Hawaiian print shorts on the Caribbean island of St Barts