She was recently forced to defend her daring new look after debuting a choppy, rockstar-inspired hairstyle on Instagram.

And Julie Bishop defiantly flaunted her new do' during a glamorous appearance on the Today show on Monday.

The former foreign minister, 67, spoke to hosts Karl Stefanovic and Sarah Abo about the latest news, dazzling in an animal-print shirt dress that perfectly matched her wild new haircut.

The blonde, who is affectionately known as the 'Minister for Fashion', also dished out some fashion advice, advising viewers about the benefits of investing in quality wardrobe staples.

'This season we're all about focusing on inner investment pieces,' said Julie, who is an ambassador for retail giant David Jones.

Julie Bishop, 67 (pictured) defiantly flaunted her shaggy new hairdo as she gave fashion advice on Monday's Today show - weeks after hitting back at criticism over her edgy look

'David Jones is very keen to ensure that people can lay the foundation for a timeless, classic wardrobe that will take you from autumn, winter and beyond,' she said.

It comes two weeks after Julie clapped back at critics of her new mane.

Earlier this month, Julie uploaded a photo of herself dining at Chiswick restaurant in Sydney's Woollahra with two female friends.

The former foreign minister spoke to hosts Karl Stefanovic and Sarah Abo about the latest news, dazzling in an animal-print shirt dress that perfectly matched her wild new haircut

Looking worlds away from her usual polished and glossy fringed bob, Julie's new platinum tresses completely covers her forehead after being cut into a voluminous Eighties-style fringe

Looking worlds away from her usual polished and glossy fringed bob, Julie's new platinum tresses completely cover her forehead after being cut into a voluminous Eighties-style fringe.

Unfortunately, several of Julie's fans were not fans of the strikingly different 'do.

'Not so sure about the hairdo Julie,' one wrote.

Earlier this month, Julie uploaded a photo of herself dining at Chiswick restaurant in Sydney 's Woollahra with two female friends

Julie simply replied with a shrugging emoji, appearing unbothered by the critical remark.

Another Instagram user went further, writing: 'Dear Julie Bishop, you always look smashing but those who praise your new hairstyle are doing you no favours… I apologise beforehand BUT the dishevelled look is … well, dishevelled! You paid a hairdresser? Hmmm.'

A quick-witted Julie clapped back at the remark, writing: 'I love change so I'll change it again sometime!' followed by a laughing face emoji and clapping hands.

Several of Julie's fans were not fan of the strikingly different 'do