As Australia gears up for the second leg of Taylor Swift's Eras Tour, Aussie fans have already started complaining about an 'annoying' act at the concerts.

Taylor's sold-out Melbourne shows saw super fans around the world shriek in outrage about the surprise songs - but that's only the tip of the iceberg when it comes to infuriating behaviour.

Lee, from Victoria, recently started a debate about proper concert etiquette after a young fan kept her arms in the air for the entirety of the show.

The woman's act blocked Lee's vision and kept her from being able to see Taylor perform at several points.

'Does this count as a ticket with restriction views?' she asked on TikTok, along with a clip.

Aussie fans have started complaining about an 'annoying' act at Taylor Swift concerts

Lee shared that she politely asked the woman to try and dance with her hands down because she couldn't see - but it didn't work.

The super fan was upset because she spent hundreds on Eras Tour tickets and had been looking forward to the concert for months.

However, many slammed her for criticising the other fan's 'normal' behaviour.

'Part of going to a concert is knowing almost no matter where you are, your view is going to be restricted most of the time,' one said.

'Even the front row isn't perfect because there are other people there. Arms are always going to be up and swaying - and the artists are going to go every where in case of blind spots,' another argued.

A third said, 'I don't see anything restricting your view. I see someone having fun and an entitled person complaining about it.'

Another Melbourne concert-goer weighed in: 'I loved the people getting involved, it was so fun. My whole area dance and jumped around the entire show. Was epic.'

But others sided with Lee, disbelieving of the young woman's 'selfish' act.

'People need to learn concert etiquette. I understand that she's excited but we still need to be respectful of your surroundings. Manners!' one wrote.

'Listen, if I paid all that money and had someone constantly obstructing my view, I'd be upset. We're all there to have fun BUT you need to be respectful!' another echoed.

'You can dance and enjoy a concert without waving your arm all over the place the entire time,' a woman wrote.

'I have back issues, so I can't stand, or even sit for that matter for a long, YET I still want to be able to see the artist. Is that so wrong?' one asked.