There was no shortage of star power at the 49th annual People's Choice Awards, held at the Barker Hangar in Santa Monica, California, on Sunday.

Sydney Sweeney, 26, was every inch the blonde bombshell at the event, wearing a busty red hot Mônot gown that showed off her ample cleavage. The Euphoria star's golden tresses cascaded down her back in light waves.

Heidi Klum, 50, looked sensational in a black mini dress featuring a dramatic black and white train. The German supermodel added further glamour to her look with a layer of pearls, and completed the outfit with pointed-toe heels.

Real Housewives of Beverly Hills star Kyle Richards, 55, who joined the likes of Megan Fox and Jennifer Aniston at the star-studded ceremony, turned up the heat in a low-cut metallic green mini dress that showed off her toned legs. The unique look featured a light train in the back.

The reality star — who recently revealed she and estranged husband Mauricio Umansky, 53, can date other people — paired the look with nude peep-toe heels and wore her brunette tresses in a straight style.

Sydney Sweeney, 26, Heidi Klum, 50, and Kyle Richards, 55, lead the glamour at the People's Choice Awards held at the Barker Hangar in Santa Monica, California, on Sunday

The Euphoria star, 26, sent temperatures soaring in a red hot number

Inside, Sydney was joined by her Anyone but You co-star Glen Powell, 35, who skipped the red carpet. He looked dashing in a grey suit.

Meanwhile Kyle was joined by sister Kathy Hilton, 64, who looked splendid in white lace pants, a white top, and matching feather jacket.

Selling Sunset's Chrishell Stause, 42, stood out in a plunging deep purple PVC gown with a low-cut neckline and a dramatic train. She was joined by her stylish spouse, Australian singer G Flip.

Kylie Minogue, 55, stunned in a sleeveless ruched metallic gown with a sizzling side slit. The singer wore strappy black heels and styled her blonde tresses in light curls.

Laverne Cox, 51, kicked off the red carpet arrivals, looking stunning in a plunging gown featuring a black bustier and silver metal skirt.

The Orange is the New Black star added a dramatic flair to the look with elbow-length velvet gloves, and completed the outfit with pointed-toe black heels.

The actress, who hosted the E! Live From the Red Carpet segment, accessorized with a statement necklace and earrings, and wore her caramel toned tresses in bouncy curls.

Vanderpump Rules star Scheana Shay, 38, commanded attention in a plunging emerald green gown with a thigh-high side slit.

She was joined by husband Brock Davies who sported a coordinating stylish green co-ord. The pair shared a sweet kiss on the red carpet.

Megan Fox showcased her dramatic new look at the event

The Transformers star, 37, arrived to the Barker Hangar in a white strapless dress and sporting pink hair amid plastic surgery rumors that emerged after her appearance at the Super Bowl

Jennifer Aniston, 55, looked classy as ever in a simple sleeveless black dress that showed off her toned legs

The Friends star rocked her signature straight hairstyle

Sweeney was every inch the blonde bombshell in a busty red hot gown that showed off her ample cleavage

The scarlet ensemble featured a plunging neckline

She accentuated her stunning features with a touch of makeup

She completed the look with red heels

The star showed off the gown from the back

Sydney accessorized with diamond earrings

The beauty was joined by Darren Barnet on the red carpet

Inside, Sydney was joined by her Anyone but You co-star Glen Powell, 35, who skipped the red carpet

He looked dashing as ever in a grey suit and white shirt

Heidi Klum looked sensational as ever in a black mini dress featuring a dramatic black and white train

The German supermodel added further glamour to her look with a layer of pearls, and completed the outfit with black stockings and pointed-toe heels

Her blonde tresses were styled in bouncy waves

Heidi made a grand entrance

Real Housewives of Beverly Hills star Kyle turned up the heat in a busty metallic green mini dress that highlighted her ample cleavage and toned legs

The reality star - who recently revealed she and estranged husband Mauricio Umansky, 53, can date other people - paired the look with nude peep-toe heels

She wore her brunette tresses in a straight style

She was joined by sister Kathy Hilton, 64, who looked splendid in white lace pants, a white top, and matching feather jacket

The sister duo happily posed for the cameras

Kathy looked angelic in her all-white outfit

They also posed with their fellow Beverly Hills Housewives: Annemarie Wiley, Garcelle Beauvais, Crystal Minkoff and Erika Jayne

People's Choice Awards 2024 Winners At a Glance

Music Male artist of the year: Jung Kook (WINNER) Female artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Male country artist of the year: Jelly Roll (WINNER) Female country artist of the year: Lainey Wilson (WINNER) Male Latin artist of the year: Bad Bunny (WINNER) Female Latin artist of the year: Shakira (WINNER) Pop artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Hip-hop artist of the year: Nicki Minaj (WINNER) R&B artist of the year: Beyoncé (WINNER) New artist of the year: Ice Spice (WINNER) Group/duo of the year: Stray Kids (WINNER) Song of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, “Vampire” (WINNER) Album of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, Guts (WINNER) Collaboration song of the year: Nicki Minaj & Ice Spice with Aqua, “Barbie World” (WINNER) Concert tour of the year: Taylor Swift, The Eras Tour (WINNER) Movies Movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Action movie of the year: The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Drama movie of the year: Oppenheimer (WINNER) Male movie star of the year: Ryan Gosling, Barbie (WINNER) Female movie star of the year: Margot Robbie, Barbie (WINNER) Margot Robbie is a leading contender for female movie star of the year for Barbie Action movie star of the year: Rachel Zegler, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie star of the year: Jennifer Lawrence, No Hard Feelings (WINNER) Drama movie star of the year Jenna Ortega, Scream VI (WINNER) Movie performance of the year America Ferrera, Barbie (WINNER) TV Show of the year: Grey’s Anatomy (WINNER) Comedy show of the year: Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Drama show of the year: The Last of Us (WINNER) Sci-fi/fantasy show of the year: Loki (WINNER) Reality show of the year: The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition show of the year: The Voice (WINNER) Bingeworthy show of the year: The Summer I Turned Pretty (WINNER) Male TV star of the year: Pedro Pascal, The Last of Us (WINNER) Female TV star of the year: Selena Gomez, Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Comedy TV star of the year: Jeremy Allen White, The Bear (WINNER) Drama TV star of the year: Jennifer Aniston, The Morning Show (WINNER) TV performance of the year Billie Eilish, Swarm (WINNER) Reality TV star of the year Khloé Kardashian, The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition contestant of the year Ariana Madix, Dancing with the Stars (WINNER) Daytime talk show of the year The Kelly Clarkson Show (WINNER) Nighttime talk show of the year The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon (WINNER) Host of the year Jimmy Fallon, That’s My Jam (WINNER) Pop Culture Social celebrity of the year Taylor Swift (WINNER) Comedy act of the year Chris Rock, Selective Outrage (WINNER) Athlete of the year Travis Kelce (WINNER) Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Scheana's Vanderpump Rules co-star Katie Maloney, 37, had all eyes on her in a sheer cheetah-print black slip dress.

Zuri Hall, 35, wowed in a form-fitting sleeveless black gown with a sizzling thigh-high slit. She added height to her frame with black open-toe platform heels.

Samantha Hanratty, 28, showed off her toned legs in a blazer-style romper, black stockings, and matching stilettos.

Too Hot to Handle star Francesca Farago wowed in a white gown with side cut-outs, and was joined by fiancé Jesse Sullivan, who looked sharp in a black suit.

The pair put on a loved-up display, with Jesse planting a sweet kiss on his other half as they posed for the shutterbugs.

Lainey Wilson, 31, embraced her country-cool style in a cheetah bellbottom catsuit.

She paired the halter-neck style ensemble with a wide-brim black hat.

Ariana Greenblatt, 16, was the picture of elegance in a black mini dress and platform heels.

Kylie Minogue, 55, stunned in a sleeveless ruched metallic gown with a sizzling side slit

The singer wore strappy black heels and styled her blonde tresses in light curls

Kylie coordinated her black heels with black nail polish

Minogue smiled at fans as she strutted down the carpet

Rachel Zegler, 22, was a sight to behold in a sheer black mesh gown with a textured skirt bottom

Lucy Hale, 34, was a vision in a sleeveless scarlet silk gown with a train

The gown featured a button closure on the side

Carmen Electra, 51, took the plunge in an iridescent metallic dress which clung to her enviable physique

Billie Eilish, 22, showed off her unusual style in a black and grey pullover, a cream button-up, and oversized black pants

She completed the look with rimless eyeglasses

Little Mermaid star Halle Bailey, 23, put on a mesmerizing display in a busty blue gown

The singer accessorized with tear-drop earrings

Ice Spice, 24, wore an eye-catching sheer orange lace gown over cheetah-print pants

The outfit featured a fuzzy trim

Her tresses were styled in tight curls

Ariana Greenblatt, 16, was the picture of elegance in a black mini dress and platform heels

The sophisticated dress featured large white buttons

The platforms added height to her 5′ 3″ frame

Ariana struck a number of cute poses on the red carpet

Jeannie Mai, 45, cut an edgy figure in a structured black gown with a long train

Her raven tresses were parted in the middle and slicked back into a ponytail

She completed the look with strappy black heels

Natasha Bedingfield, 42, oozed 70's cool in a plunging pink bellbottom catsuit

She wore her platinum strands styles into a bob

While on the red carpet she posed with comedian Whitney Cummings, 41

Whitney rocked a nude tulle cocktail dress and neon heels

Laverne Cox, 51, kicked off the red carpet arrivals, looking stunning in a plunging gown with a black bustier and silver metal skirt

She accessorized with a statement necklace and earrings, and wore her caramel toned tresses in bouncy curls

Scheana Shay, 38, sizzled in a plunging emerald green gown with a thigh-high side slit

Scheana completed her stylish outfit with nude strappy heels

She was joined by husband Brock Davies who sported a coordinating stylish green co-ord

The loved-up duo shared a sweet kiss

Brock tenderly embraced his wife

They posed up a storm for the cameras

Scheana's Vanderpump Rules co-star Katie Maloney, 37, had all eyes on her in a sheer cheetah-print black slip dress

Selling Sunset's Chrishell Stause, 42, stood out in a plunging deep purple PVC gown with a low-cut neckline and a dramatic train

She wore her tresses in a short blonde bob

She was joined by her stylish spouse Australian singer G Flip

The pair cozied up together

G Flip made sure Chrishell's gown looked perfect for the cameras

Her co-stars Emma Hernan and Chelsea Lazkani put on very busty displays

The ladies showed off their coordinating looks

Chelsea teamed her sexy look with eyeglasses and slicked back hair

Lainey Wilson, 31, embraced her country-cool style in a cheetah bellbottom catsuit

She paired the halter-neck style ensemble with a wide-brim black hat

Barbie star America Ferrera, 39, cut a chic figure in a busty black and pink gown

Housewives star Dorit Kemsley, 35, looked tres chic in a purple gown

Erika Jayne, 52, rocked a black mini dress with heels and a diamond anklet

Garcelle Beauvais, 57, looked glamorous in a black gown with silver details and matching silver heels

Abigail Spencer donned a strapless black and silver gown with strappy heels

Crystal Kung, 41, shined in a silver gown and wore her brunette tresses halfway back

Carmen Electra, 51, took the plunge in an iridescent metallic dress which clung to her enviable physique.

Ice Spice, 24, wore an eye-catching sheer orange lace gown over cheetah-print pants.

Billie Eilish, 22, showed off her unusual style in a black and grey pullover, a cream button-up, and oversized black pants. She teamed the look with chunky boots.

Little Mermaid star Halle Bailey, 23, put on a mesmerizing display in a busty blue gown.

Rachel Zegler, 22, was a sight to behold in a sheer black mesh gown with a textured skirt bottom.

Th Exorcist star Brianne Howey, 34, looked glamorous in an off-shoulder brown gown with a side cut-out.

Olivia Culpo's sister Sophia Culpo, 27, put her toned legs on display in a short silver mini dress and silver heels.

In her hand she held a small white clutch. Meanwhile her brunette tresses were styled in loose locks.

She was joined by boyfriend Michael Stevens, who looked handsome in a black suit with a white t-shirt underneath.

Housewives star Dorit Kemsley, 35, looked tres chic in a purple gown.

Garcelle Beauvais, 57, looked glamorous in a black gown with silver details and matching silver heels. Crystal Kung, 41, shined in a silver gown and wore her brunette tresses halfway back.

Th Exorcist star Brianne Howey, 34, looked glamorous in an off-shoulder brown gown with a side cut-out

Kathryn Hahn, 50, flashed a hint of her toned legs in a black and white sequin gown

Lenny Kravitz, 59, was rocker cool in a structured shoulder black blazer underneath which he went shirtless, showing a glimpse of his washboard abs

The Fly Away hitmaker completed the look with black leather pants and oversized sunglasses

Olivia Culpo's sister Sophia Culpo, 27, put her toned legs on display in a short silver mini dress and silver heels

She was joined by boyfriend Michael Stevens, who looked handsome in a black suit with a white t-shirt underneath

Zuri Hall, 35, wowed in a form-fitting sleeveless black gown with a sizzling thigh-high slit

Coi Leray, 26, wore a bright and fun neon green dress with cut-outs and bows

She styled it up with a matching fur and wrap-around heels

Adam Sandler, 57, was joined by wife Jackie, 49, at the awards ceremony

He showed off his casual cool style by mixing a navy suit with red sneakers

The pair have been married since 2003

Real Housewives of New Jersey stars Dolores Catania, 53, and Melissa Gorga, 44, looked stylish as they posed together

Melissa wore a metal chain crop top and flowing black skirt

Her co-star Dolores Catania, 53, strutted the red carpet in a plunging white gown

The duo posed with Margaret Josephs

Samantha Hanratty, 28, showed off her toned legs in a blazer-style romper, black stockings, and matching stilettos

She accessorized with a small black handbag

Too Hot to Handle star Francesca Farago wowed in a white gown with side cut-outs and was joined by fiancé Jesse Sullivan, who looked sharp in a black suit

Jesse planted a sweet kiss on his other half

Annemarie Wiley, 40, wowed in a frilly asymmetrical red dress and gold heels

Nicole Young looked incredible in a pink gown and gold heels

Montana Tucker shimmered in a stylish black gown and heels

She accessorized with statement earrings

Jersey 'JWoww' Shore star Jenni Farley, 37, wore an off-shoulder black dress and colorful heels

She was joined by co-star Michael 'The Situation' Sorrentino, 41

The dynamic duo gladly posed together

Adam Sandler, 57, was joined by wife Jackie, 49. The pair have been married since 2003.

Barbie star America Ferrera, 39, cut a chic figure in a busty black and pink gown. The dress featured a large pink bow, and she teamed the look with black heels.

Lucy Hale, 34, was a vision in a sleeveless scarlet silk gown with a train.

Jeannie Mai, 45, cut an edgy figure in a structured black gown with a long train.

Natasha Bedingfield, 42, oozed 70's cool in a plunging pink bellbottom catsuit. She wore her platinum strands styles into a bob.

While on the red carpet she posed with comedian Whitney Cummings, 41.

Aisha Potter and Alexandra Shipp both stunned in chic white outfits.

YouTube star Tana Mongeau, 25, opted for a busty look in a plunging silver gown, while Alix Earle was sheer perfection in a delicate black gown.

Coi Leray, 26, wore a bright and fun neon green dress with cut-outs and bows. She styled it up with a matching fur and wrap-around heels.

Grey's Anatomy star Camilla Luddington slipped her formidable physique into a strapless black PVC dress.

Lisa Yamada was fashionable in a bustier-style denim gown.

Aisha Potter and Alexandra Shipp both stunned in chic white outfits

Karen Pittman, 37, also opted for a stylish white dress

Hannah Godwin, 29, looked ethereal in a feather adorned white gown

She was joined by husband Dylan Barbour

Tori Robinson caught up with Leah O'Malley

Georgia Flood opted for a Barbie pink gown

Jamie Chung, 40, was a lavender dream in a mini dress and clear heels

She was joined by husband actor Bryan Greenberg

Model Haley Kalil, 31, thrilled in an electric blue gown

Grey's Anatomy star Camilla Luddington slipped her formidable physique into a strapless black PVC dress. Lisa Yamada was fashionable in a bustier-style denim gown

Mayan Lopez rocked a black mini dress

Noa Kirel and Marta Pozzan both opted for edgy looks

Kirel showed off her cool look from the back

Michaela Murphy was the belle of the ball in a black tulle gown and pink tie

YouTube star Tana Mongeau, 25, opted for a busty look in a plunging silver gown. Alix Earle was sheer perfection in a delicate black gown. Gigi Gorgeous showed plenty of underboob in a racy gown

Gigi's mini dress featured very daring cut-outs on the midriff

She was joined by partner Nats Getty

Tana posed with a stylish Brooke Schofield

Bre Tiesi put on a busty display in a monochrome dress, which she accessorized with a studded clutch. Rain Spencer opted for a simple black slip dress

Chandra Wilson, 54, rocked a black blazer and gold pants

Grey's Anatomy star Kim Raver, 54, stood out in a bright blue dress and white platform heels

The cast of Grey's Anatomy posed together; (L-R) Anthony Hill, James Pickens, Jake Borelli, Kevin McKidd, Chris Carmack, Camilla Luddington, Kim Raver and Chandra Wilson

Xochitl Gomez looked breathtaking in a lovely black and white gown

Drew Afualo showed off her hourglass curves in a black gown. Brianna LaPaglia dazzled in a bright yellow dress

Bobbi Althoff and Sydney Graham sizzled at the event

Tom Hiddleston, 43, looked handsome in a grey suit

Host Simu Liu, 34, rocked a burgundy suit and brown loafers

He accessorized with a watch

He was joined by his partner Allison Hsu

She wowed in a pink look

JB Smoove was joined by wife Shahidah Omar, who looked chic in a white and silver dress

Noah Miller wore a sheer mesh black top and pants

Markell Washington wore an unusual Western-inspired look with layers of denim, a number of brown belts, and a cowboy hat

He gave the skirt a twirl in front of the shutterbugs

Influencer James Charles wore a colorful ensemble. Kane Brown looked cool as ever in a peach blazer, black pants and a beanie

Grey's Anatomy star Kevin McKidd was handsome in a classic black suit

Max Goodrich and Shameik Moore looked dashing in a black suits

Joe Manganiello, 47, was handsome as ever in a classic suit

He rocked a short beard for the event

Selling Sunset's Jason Oppenheim opted for a plaid grey suit

Lenny Kravitz, 59, was rocker cool in a structured shoulder black blazer underneath which he went shirtless, showing a glimpse of his washboard abs.

The Fly Away hitmaker completed the look with black leather pants and oversized sunglasses.

Gigi Gorgeous showed plenty of underboob in a racy black mini dress. She was joined by partner Nats Getty.

Megan Fox showcased her dramatic new look at the event. The Transformers star, 37, arrived to the Barker Hangar in a white strapless dress and sporting pink hair amid plastic surgery rumors that emerged after her appearance at the Super Bowl.

She opted to skip the red carpet, choosing instead to present an award alongside Joe Manganiello.

Incorporating a black choker into the ensemble, the star also flaunted her new sleeve of body art.

The People's Choice appearance comes after Megan was accused of being 'xenophobic' while attempting to defend her shock new appearance, likening herself in one photo to a 'Ukrainian blowup doll.'

The Transformers star responded to critics on Wednesday, attributing the alteration of her image to a 'shadowy' photo. However, her rebuttal sparked controversy as she proudly claimed that 'in reality,' she resembles a 'super expensive silicone real sex doll' from Japan.

Jennifer Aniston, 55, looked classy as ever in a simple sleeveless black dress that showed off her toned legs. The Friends star rocked her signature straight hairstyle.

Sydney and Glen were pictured onstage together

The pair have sparked romance rumors on a number of occasions ever since filming the romantic comedy

Glenn looked dashing in a grey suit

The duo laughed onstage

They posed with Natasha Bedingfield inside

The trio also posed up with Lainey

Megan opted to skip the red carpet, choosing instead to present an award alongside Joe Manganiello

The People's Choice appearance comes after Megan was accused of being 'xenophobic' while attempting to defend her shock new appearance, likening herself in one photo to a 'Ukrainian blowup doll'

Incorporating a black choker into the ensemble, the star also flaunted her new sleeve of body art

Aniston sparkled up her look with a number of golden jewelry pieces

She was tasked with presenting the People's Icon Award to her longtime collaborator Adam Sandler

Aniston described Sandler as her 'very good friend' as well as her 'brother from another mother' in addition to being 'an extraordinary father, husband, and one of the most loyal friends you could ever, ever have'

Sandler took the stage to deliver a rousing and rambling comedic rant in which he joked that he had won People magazine's Sexiest Man Alive honors

Sandler joked in his speech, 'I would like to say thank you recognizing me as the man who made our entire country the horniest this year'

She also won the honors for Drama TV star of the year for her work on The Morning Show

Jen appeared touched by the honor

Sandler posed with his award

Aniston posed with Haley inside

She also mingled with Zegler

Kravitz was presented with the the Music Icon Award by Victoria Monét, 34

The rock icon was pictured onstage with his trophy for the vaunted honors

The musical staple performed a medley of his classics such as Are You Gonna Go My Way, Fly Away and It Ain't Over 'til It's Over

Eilish won the honors for TV Performance of the Year for her work on Swarm

The singer-songwriter had been nominated for her role as Eva on the Prime miniseries against a notable group including Meryl Streep, Ayo Edebiri and Jon Hamm

Loki star Tom Hiddleston was on hand to accept the show's win for Sci-fi/Fantasy show of the year

Billie posed with Halle inside

Scheana, Bobbi and Katie struck a pose

Jeremy Renner, 53, made a surprise appearance at the event

He helped his fellowMarvel star Simu kick off the awards

'Gotta say, it feels good to be back,' he shared, more that 13 months after his nearly-deadly snow plow accident

Renner posed with Mad Men star Jon Hamm

Renner laughed it up with Hiddleston

Annemarie Wiley, 40, wowed in a frilly asymmetrical red dress and gold heels. Jamie Chung, 40, was a lavender dream in a mini dress and clear heels.

Emma Hernan sizzled up a storm in a very busty black dress. Her blonde tresses were styled in a wet look.

Chelsea Lazkani put on an eye-popping display in a black gown with a white collar. She teamed her sexy look with eyeglasses and slicked back hair.

Erika Jayne, 52, rocked a black mini dress with heels and a diamond anklet.

Markell Washington wore an unusual Western-inspired look with layers of denim, a number of brown belts, and a cowboy hat.

Hannah Godwin, 29, looked ethereal in a feather adorned white gown. She was joined by husband Dylan Barbour.

Jersey 'JWoww' Shore star Jenni Farley, 37, wore an off-shoulder black dress and colorful heels. She was joined by co-star Michael 'The Situation' Sorrentino, 41.

Model Haley Kalil, 31, thrilled in an electric blue gown.

Real Housewives of New Jersey star Melissa Gorga, 44, wore a metal chain crop top and flowing black skirt. Her co-star Dolores Catania, 53, strutted the red carpet in a plunging white gown.

Bre Tiesi put on a busty display in a monochrome dress, which she accessorized with a studded clutch. Rain Spencer opted for a simple black slip dress.

Lainey Wilson, who performed earlier in the night, was named winner of the Female Country Artist of the year honors

Wilson said she was optimistic about the future of the genre as it continues to embrace diversity

The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes star Rachel Zegler took the honors for Action Movie Star of the year

She mingled with Victoria at the event

She also posed with Chris Olsen

Influencer James Charles wore a colorful ensemble. Kane Brown looked cool as ever in a peach blazer, black pants and a beanie.

Grey's Anatomy star Kevin McKidd was handsome in a classic black suit. His co-star star Kim Raver, 54, stood out in a bright blue dress and white platform heels.

Kathryn Hahn, 50, flashed a hint of her toned legs in a black and white sequin gown.

It was a big evening for Jennifer Aniston. The Friends star, 55, won the honors for Drama TV star of the year for her work on The Morning Show, as well as presenting the People's Icon Award to her longtime collaborator Adam Sandler, 57.

Aniston described Sandler as her 'very good friend' as well as her 'brother from another mother' in addition to being 'an extraordinary father, husband, and one of the most loyal friends you could ever, ever have.'

She added: 'I mean, who's more iconic than Adam Sandler, seriously? I don't remember a time when Adam wasn't a part of popular culture.'

Aniston said that Sandler 'launched a career at that took the comedy box office by storm' and has shown a variety of skills throughout his career.

Sandler took the stage to deliver a rousing and rambling comedic rant in which he joked that he had won People magazine's Sexiest Man Alive honors.

America Ferrera won the honors for Movie Performance of the Year for her work in Barbie

Ferrera thanked the fans for making Barbie 'a global cultural phenomenon' at the box office this summer, also thanking her collaborators on the film, director Greta Gerwig and actress Margo Robbie

She proudly showed off her award

She snuck a picture with Abigail Spencer

She mingled with Ice Spice

Ice Spice was named New Artist of the year, telling the crowd, 'This award means so much to me, because it's fan voted - and I love my fans'

Sandler joked in his speech, 'I would like to say thank you recognizing me as the man who made our entire country the horniest this year.

'And was by far the most talked about person in the bedroom by couples or throuples during fantasy role play.'

The comedy staple also thanked his wife Jackie, 49, and daughters Sadie, 17, and Sunny, 15.

'Not a minute goes by without me thinking of and how much I love you, you're my best friends and my darling wife Jackie, you are my partner for life,' he said. 'I love every car ride and every kiss we've ever had, forever and ever my girl.'

Aniston later won the honors for Drama TV star of the year for her work on The Morning Show.

Lenny Kravitz was presented with the the Music Icon Award by Victoria Monét, 34.

The musical staple performed a medley of his classics such as Are You Gonna Go My Way, Fly Away and It Ain't Over 'til It's Over.

In his acceptance speech, the rock veteran opened up about his interpretation of what it means to be an icon, delving in on his mindset as an artist.

Pedro Pascal, 48, won the honors for Male TV Star of the Year for his work on The Last of Us, which was also named Drama Show of the Year. He accepted the honors via satellite from Vancouver, where he's working on the feted HBO show's second season

Actor Simu Liu hosted Sunday's proceedings stemming from Southern California

Maloney was seen taking in the event

Darren Barnet and Alexandra Shipp enjoyed the night together

They had a blast

Shahidah Omar and J. B. Smoove shared a sweet kiss

Kane Brown took in the action

The Situation flashed his megawatt smile

'An icon, to me, is someone who inspires and teaches others to believe in themselves, and their direction, whatever that direction is,' he said. 'It's never been about how many records I sell, or how many awards I win. It's not about trying to write hits, or being calculated or formulaic.

The broadcast on NBC kicked off as Billie Eilish won the honors for TV Performance of the Year for her work on Swarm.

The singer-songwriter, 22, had been nominated for her role as Eva on the Prime miniseries against a notable group including Meryl Streep, Ayo Edebiri and Jon Hamm.

Loki star Tom Hiddleston, 43, was on hand to accept the show's win for Sci-fi/Fantasy show of the year, telling the audience, 'Thank you so much - I am so grateful for this great honor.

'It is such a privilege to receive this People's Choice Award from you - the audience; the people for whom we make this work and who allow us to do what we do.'

Lainey Wilson, who performed earlier in the night, was named winner of the Female Country Artist of the year honors. The musical artist, 31, said she was optimistic about the future of the genre as it continues to embrace diversity.

'I'm so proud to be a part of this generation of country music,' Wilson said. 'I feel like everybody looks different and sounds different and has a different story and comes from different walks of life.'

America Ferrera won the honors for Movie Performance of the Year for her work in Barbie.

Ferrera thanked the fans for making Barbie 'a global cultural phenomenon' at the box office this summer, also thanking her collaborators on the film, director Greta Gerwig and actress Margo Robbie.

Sydney was seen arriving to the event

She made her way inside

Heidi adjusted her gown before going inside

Hale was pictured on arrival

Ice Spice was named New Artist of the year, telling the crowd, 'This award means so much to me, because it's fan voted - and I love my fans.'

The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes star Rachel Zegler took the honors for Action Movie Star of the year.

Pedro Pascal, 48, won the honors for Male TV Star of the Year for his work on The Last of Us, which was also named Drama Show of the Year.

He accepted the honors via satellite from Vancouver, where he's working on the feted HBO show's second season.

Jeremy Renner, 53, made a surprise appearance at the event. He helped his fellow Marvel star Simu Liu, 34, kick off the awards.

'Gotta say, it feels good to be back,' he shared, more that 13 months after his nearly-deadly snow plow accident.

The event was hosted by Marvel Cinematic Universe star Simu, who is best known for his roles in sitcom Kim’s Convenience as well as in Marvel’s Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings.

Liu also portrayed one of the several Kens in the aforementioned $1.4 billion blockbuster Barbie.