Danielle Lloyd's home may have been raided by the same gang who robbed Jack Grealish's mansion, it has been claimed.

The 40-year-old model's house was broken into last October, but last week she was told those responsible may be the same as those behind the raid on Grealish's home.

The model, who was previously married to footballer Jamie O'Hara, had her home in Birmingham targeted when she was out with her family.

When she was out with businessman Michael O'Neill and their six children, the burglars took items including a £100,000 Richard Mille watch and a gold Cartier bracelet worth £20,000, The Sun reported.

Grealish's home was raided on Boxing Day, which saw £1million worth of watches stolen from the £5.6 million Cheshire property.

Danielle Lloyd 's home was raided by the same gang who robbed Jack Grealish's mansion, it has been claimed

The 40-year-old model's house was broken into last October, but last week she was told those responsible may be the same as those behind the raid on Grealish's home

Grealish's home was raided on Boxing Day, which saw £1million worth of watches stolen from the £5.6 million Cheshire property

A source told The Sun that Ms Lloyd was so 'shaken up' by the robbery she's sold her house and moved to a different area.

She is said to have believed the gang had been watching their home for some time.

EXCLUSIVE READ MORE - Jack Grealish detectives fear they WON'T find gang behind Boxing Day raid which saw burglars steal £1million worth of watches and jewellery in terrifying home invasion Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/news/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

The source told the newspaper: 'She has now been told the gang behind robberies at footballer's homes, including Grealish, could’ve also raided her house.'

The couple were alerted to the break-in when alarms at their mansion were set off and sent alerts to their phones.

They then watched through an app as the gang tore through their home.

The source added that the model is 'petrified' of it happening again.

Meanwhile, Grealish, 28, was playing in City's 3-1 away win against Everton during the time of the break-in st his home.

It is thought 10 relatives were watching the match before being alerted by barking dogs and noises.

Sources previously told MailOnline that such crimes after often carried out by 'serious organised crime networks' who have 'huge pools of intelligence about what players are doing and when'.

Grealish, 28, was playing in City's 3-1 away win against Everton during the time of the break-in

Grealish released a statement following the incident saying it had been 'traumatic'

They added that gangs will pay 'big money' to people that could tip them off with inside information and help organise a raid.

Speaking just days after the raid, the source said: 'One theory being looked at is that removal workers were followed during the days that Jack was moving into the property.

'There were vehicles coming and going for days on end in the run-up to Jack and his girlfriend getting the keys.

'For burglars looking to carry out a raid, this is like red meat. Police will therefore be working backwards to see if there are any clues at all in the days leading up to the raid.

'Another area they will look to get to the bottom of is whether the gang had any inside information.

'These raids are carried out by serious organised crime networks, often based overseas, who have huge pools of intelligence about what players are doing and when. They pay big money for tip-offs to help carry out raids like this.'

Sasha was said to be 'in pieces' following the break-in, which happened just days after Grealish moved into the £5.6million home.

Another source added at the time: 'Sasha is in pieces over this. Sasha has had to deal with death threats and online abuse over and over again during the time she's been with Jack.

'But this feels very different. For people to come into her new home in this way has left her terrified. She's not been on her own since it happened and right now doesn't want to be.

'Jack is particularly angry about the impact this has had on Sasha. They've been together nearly half of his life and he loves her to bits.

'He will now do anything to protect her. They've got their dream home but it means nothing if she's not happy and Jack wants her to feel as safe in it as possible.'