Teresa Giudice and her husband Louie Ruelas poured on the PDA as they soaked up the sun in Miami Beach Sunday.

The passionate pair didn't seem to care who might be watching them get quite close on a chaise lounge on the beach.

Louie, 48, who is being sued by his former fiancée for alleged harassment, looked relaxed in black Balmain swim trunks with a white stripe bearing the designer's name.

The entrepreneur wore black, green and red Gucci slide sandals and carried a floral shopping bag with the couple's beach gear.

He was shirtless and wore a medallion on a black rope chain, and covered his dark hair with a black billed hat.

Teresa Giudice, 51, and husband Louie Ruelas, 48, enjoyed getting cozy in Miami Beach Sunday

Louie appeared as if he may have gotten too much sun as he held his wife's hand for the return to their hotel.

Teresa, 51, showed off her curves in a tiny black bikini, consisting of a triangle top and string bottom.

The Real Housewives of New Jersey star's long, dark hair was styled in loose waves.

She appeared to be wearing natural looking makeup with a berry toned lip.

The reality star protected her eyes from the bright light with a pair of large, dark sunglasses.

According to Teresa's Instagram Stories, the couple seemed to have traveled to Miami Beach from New Jersey to celebrate a friend's birthday.

The pair have been staying at the Faena hotel, and have been taking advantage of some of the amenities, including facials and IV vitamin therapy infusion drips.

Before travelling south for sun and fun, Teresa watched her daughters, Gia, 23, Milania, 18 and Audriana, 14, walk the runway at New York Fashion week for the Estrada Twins show.

The passionate pair poured on the PDA as they soaked up the sun

The couple, who left their home in chilly New Jersey for the South Florida sun, didn't seem to care who might be watching them get quite close on a chaise lounge on the crowded beach

Teresa showed off her curves in a tiny black bikini, consisting of a triangle top and string bottom. The Real Housewives of New Jersey star's long, dark hair was styled in loose waves

She appeared to be wearing natural looking makeup with a berry toned lip. The reality star protected her eyes from the bright light with a pair of large, dark sunglasses

Louie, 48, looked relaxed in black Balmain swim trunks with a white stripe bearing the designer's name. The entrepreneur wore black, green and red Gucci slide sandals and a black billed Alo hat

The designers dressed the influencer at Bravocon in November.

Teresa shares her daughters with ex-husband Joe Giudice, 51.

Louie's son, Louie, Jr. 19, also participated in the fashion show.

According to Teresa's Instagram Stories, the couple seemed to have traveled to Miami Beach from New Jersey to celebrate a friend's birthday

The couple departed the beach hand-in-hand

The pair have been staying at the Faena hotel

Teresa has been taking advantage of some of the amenities, including facials and IV vitamin therapy infusion drips, according to her social media posts

As fans look forward to the debut of RHONJ season 14, and whether or not Teresa and sister-in-law Melissa Gorga, have put their differences aside

'The biggest misconception is that it's gonna be more drama between me and my sister-in-law, Melissa told Entertainment Tonight in January. 'We don't even, like, look at each other'

Before travelling south for sun and fun, Teresa watched her daughters, Gia, 23, Milania, 18 and Audriana, 14, and Louie's son, Louie, Jr, 19 walk the runway at New York Fashion week for the Estrada Twins show.

As fans look forward to the debut of RHONJ season 14, and whether or not Teresa and sister-in-law Melissa Gorga, have put their differences aside.

'The biggest misconception is that it's gonna be more drama between me and my sister-in-law, Melissa told Entertainment Tonight in January. 'We don't even, like, look at each other.'

'It is the new normal,' she added. 'I think it just is what it is. I always say it's unfortunate.'

'I'll never be, like, happy about that,' she explained. 'But we're all living, and we're happy, and sometimes things just need to take its course. Right now that's definitely how it is.'