Prince William won over BAFTA winners last night as he met with rising star nominees and other people who had picked up gongs at the award show.

Making a dapper appearance at the Royal Festival Hall in London, the Prince of Wales, who made a last-minute solo appearance while his wife Kate remains at home recovering from abdominal surgery, chatted with the nominees for the Rising Star award - plus winner Mia McKenna-Bruce.

The father-of-three, 41, shook hands with the star-struck actresses, who also included The Bear's Ayo Edebiri, Phoebe Dynevor and Sophie Wilde, before revealing he had not seen any of the films they had starred in.

Earlier in the night he apologised for confirming his attendance to the ceremony late in the day, and for also not watching many of the films - noting that, understandably, he has 'other things' on his mind.

However, ever the entertainer, William kept things light despite a difficult few months for the royal family and told Mia McKenna Bruce, who stars in How to Have Sex, that she looked like she had 'a lot of fun' making the film.

Prince William beamed last night as headed back stage to meet the stars of this years glitzy BAFTAs in London. Pictured: The Prince of Wales meets actors Phoebe Dynevor, Ayo Edebiri, Sophie Wilde and Mia McKenna Bruce

The Prince of Wales told Mia McKenna Bruce, who won the Rising Star award at the 2024 BAFTAs, that she looked like she'd had 'a lot of fun' making How To Have Sex

The Prince of Wales meets Earth Mama director Savannah Leaf, producer Medb Riodan and producers Shirley O'Connor backstage following the BAFTA ceremony

As William walked into the green room following the award ceremony, he smiled as he greeted the three young actresses.

'It was very close between all of you,' he told the talents, before turning to Mia to congratulate her.

He then told her: 'I haven't yet watched your film. I think it looked like you had a lot of fun all the way through' - sending all three women into fits of laughter.

After revealing he hasn't had time to 'get through' many of the nominated films, William said: 'It is a very very strong year for categories.'

Elsewhere, the Prince of Wales met with the makers of The Zone of Interest, a film based on the Martin Amis book which picked up several gongs.

Speaking to the creators, William said: 'I haven't seen your film yet,' to which they nodded understandingly.

One of the makers then asked the royal how he tends to watch films - to which he replied: 'On the telly.'

However the Prince added he does still go to the cinema if it's a 'big, big film'.

He concluded The Zone of Interest is 'on my watchlist', after revealing lots of people have told him to give it a watch.

Finally William met with Savanah Leaf, who created Outstanding Debut winner Earth Mama.

When he asked her how she felt about winning, and added that she had appeared 'overwhelmed' by the gong, Savanah said: 'It's a surprise I would never have imagined this to be the case.'

William then asked her: 'What does it mean to you?'

Savanah revealed she wasn't even sure the film would be put into cinemas, so to know that people will see it means a lot to her.

Earlier in the evening, was heard apologising for the Princess of Wales absence, telling organisers 'I am sorry Catherine's not here, she does love the BAFTAs'.

The father-of-three, who has been focusing on his family following his wife's medical procedure and his father King Charles' shock cancer diagnosis, added that he had not watched as many films as usual admitting he's had 'other things on his mind'

Earlier on in the evening, the heir took photos with members of the public who lined the red carpet outside the Royal Festival Hall admitting to shocked film fanatics that he still has not watched Box Office sensation Barbie.

Backstage, after Christopher Nolan's Oppenheimer bagged seven awards, the Prince was seen shaking hands with Bridgerton star Phoebe Dynevor, American star Ayo Edebiri and Australian actress Sophie Wilde, amongst others.

He also greeted Earth Mama director Savannah Leaf, producer Medb Riodan and producers Shirley O'Connor backstage, who won the BAFTA for debut British writer, director or producer.

After all the gongs had been awarded, William met with some of the nominees of the rising star award - won by the star of coming-of-age film How To Have Sex, Mia McKenna-Bruce.

He told them: 'The category was so strong, all of you, it was like who is going to pull this off? It was incredible. It was very close between all of you.'

He congratulated Ms McKenna-Bruce and admitted he had not watched her film yet, but said: 'It looked like you had a lot of fun the whole way through.'

Upon her recommendation to watch it, William said: 'I've got a lot of films to catch up on.

'Normally I get quite ahead of the awards ceremony, I get to see quite a few of them. I haven't managed to get that many through.'

He added that he now has a list of films to watch.

William reiterated the strength of the competition when speaking to the director and two producers of Earth Mama - which won outstanding debut by a British writer, director or producer.

He told the three women: 'The competition in all the categories were so strong this year.'

'And also what's so lovely is there was diversity in so many areas,' the Prince added.

The Prince opted for a velour navy blue dinner jacket, dickie bow and patent black brogues for the most glamorous night in the British film calendar

Film fanatics who had lined-up outside the Royal Festival Hall were pleased to here the Prince had watched Christopher Nolan's Oppenheimer but were shocked to find out he was yet to watch Greta Gerwig's Barbie, starring Margot Robbie.

'I haven't seen Barbie yet,' the Prince admitted, with excited fans telling him 'You need to see it.'

William said that he 'hopes to catch up' and will watch the films alongside his recovering wife.

After arriving, the Prince took a seat next to Hollywood royalty Cate Blanchett as they prepared to watch the ceremony presented this year by David Tennant.

He sat in the front row of the 2,400 auditorium at the Royal Festival Hall.

A host of A-listers descended on London's South Bank this evening with Margot Robbie, Emma Stone, Emily Blunt and Florence Pugh amongst those making a dazzling appearance.

Tonight's awards marks the first high-profile royal engagement Prince William has made since his wife's major operation and father's diagnosis.

Earlier this month he gave a speech at a London charity engagement raising funds for London's Air Ambulance Charity's new fleet of helicopters earlier this month.

The Prince apologised for his wife's absence as she continues to recover from abdominal surgery. Pictured: Prince William and Kate Middleton pictured at the BAFTA awards in 2023

The 42-year-old royal strides down the carpet alone at the Royal Festival Hall ahead of this evening's ceremony

Cate Blanchett puts her arm on the Prince of Wales' shoulder as the pair greet each other

It was thought he might skip the ceremony, which he usually appears arm in arm with Kate, but the Prince was keen to continue with his duties and represent the Royal Family at the prestigious event.

Kate had surgery on January 16 at the London clinic and has since returned to Adelaide Cottage in Windsor to be with her three children.

Tonight's ceremony marks the 77th annual award, with Nolan's atomic bomb biopic expected to be a big winner after receiving 13 nominations.

Prince William has been a patron for 14 years with his wife first attending the event with her husband in 2017.

At last years event, Kate Middleton opted for an Alexander McQueen one shoulder gown for the occasion, which she first wore to the event in 2019.

For his outfit, William kept things classic and simple in a double-breasted black velvet tuxedo jacket.