Some Britons may not have heard of the likes of Berrow Beach in Somerset, or Talybont Reservoir in Wales, but they're considered by those in the know to be among the most stunning places in the British Isles.

Other beautiful but little-known locations include Wistman's Wood in Devon, Finnich Gorge in Stirlingshire, and Symonds Yat Rock, in Gloucestershire.

These places were identified by Jeep and a team of experts from Ordnance Survey as spots eligible for inclusion in a list of Britain's top 100 breathtaking 'off the beaten track' locations.

They are all pinpointed on an interactive 'Get Lost with Jeep Compass' digital map. If users click on their markers they will discover activities to do or things to see there, and find details of nearby walking or cycling routes that can be accessed through the OS Maps app.

It follows a study of 2,000 adults that found 31 per cent have seen little of Britain. Nearly a quarter (24 per cent) have never visited Scotland, 17 per cent have not ventured to Wales, and 20 per cent have not even been to London. The study also found 80 per cent are keen to see more of Britain, with 57 per cent of those especially eager to visit 'unexpected places'.

Nick Giles OBE, managing director of Ordnance Survey Leisure, said: 'We are delighted to work with Jeep to map the 100 "Off the Beaten Track" locations and hope that this will inspire people up and down the land to get outside and have new mini adventures away from the more obvious hot spots.' Scroll down for stunning pictures of some of the spots that made the list...

Pictured here is Talisker Bay on the Isle of Skye, which makes the top 100 breathtaking 'off the beaten track' locations list

The distinctive Stiperstones hill in Shropshire is a great spot to include on a hike, offering stunning 360-degree views. According to www.shropshiresgreatoutdoors.co.uk, the hill's 'jagged bare stone tors... are where Shropshire witches meet to sup with the devil'

Pictured above is the Devil’s Pulpit in Finnich Glen, Stirlingshire. Ordnance Survey describes it as 'a mind-blowing gorge'

Wimbleball Lake Activity Centre is located among the eye-catching hills of Exmoor, with www.visitsomerset.co.uk describing it as 'a must-visit attraction'

Symonds Yat Rock in Gloucestershire offers incredible views of the Wye Valley, as this image shows

Lindisfarne Castle on Holy Island in Northumberland is reached via a tidal causeway and summed up by the National Trust as being a 'castle that's not a castle, on an island that's not an island'. The organisation explains that the 16th-century structure was converted in 1901 by architect Sir Edwin Lutyens into a holiday home for Edward Hudson, founder of Country Life magazine, adding: 'Hudson’s successors never made any major changes and so it’s largely the work of Lutyens that greets visitors today'

Behold enchanting Wistman's Wood, a temperate rainforest in Devon's Dartmoor National Park known for its mosses and lichens

Pictured here is Roche Rock, near St Austell in Cornwall, home to a ruined 15th-century chapel

Berrow Beach in Somerset makes the list, and is described by one Tripadvisor user as 'marvellous'

This breathtaking shot shows the 318-acre Talybont Reservoir in the Brecon Beacons National Park. Visitmidwales.co.uk points out that there is a six-mile cycling route around it