It is a circa-1920s Spanish Revival with seven bedrooms sprawling across 8,400 square feet

The Pebble Beach property was one of the first homes built in the exclusive California coastal community

A breathtaking beach-side mansion has hit the property market for $22.57 million

A stunning mansion that is one of the oldest properties in the elegant coastal community of Pebble Beach has hit the market at $22.75 million.

The circa-1920s Spanish Revival sprawls over 8,400 square feet and features seven bedrooms.

Sitting on an exclusive 6.5 acre plot of land with breathtaking views of the pacific ocean, the century-old estate is newly renovated.

Listing agent Tim Allen of Coldwell Banker Realty revealed that the beautiful Spanish-style home was among one of the first houses built in Pebble Beach.

Pebble Beach is a small coastal residential community on the Monterey Peninsula in California that was founded in 1919.

A stunning mansion that is one of the oldest properties in the elegant coastal community of Pebble Beach has hit the market at $22.75 million.

The circa-1920s Spanish Revival sprawls over 8,400 square feet and features seven bedrooms

Sitting on an exclusive 6.5 acre plot of land with breathtaking views of the pacific ocean, the century-old estate is newly renovated

The beach town is known for impressive golf courses, gated communities and the '17-mile drive,' which is the main road running through Pebble beach that non-residents are charged a toll to use.

Selling the exclusive property is Ann Soske, 80, along with her three adult children.

Listing agent Tim Allen of Coldwell Banker Realty revealed that the beautiful Spanish-style home was among one of the first houses built in Pebble Beach

Soske purchased the home in the 1970s with her late husband Joshua Soske, who died in 2022.

The couple bought the Pebble Beach property for $600,000, according to public records.

Originally - the home was built for the at-the-time President of Pebble Beach's Cypress Point Club, Harry Hunt.

Sports Illustrated reported in 1956 that Hunt played a round of golf with President Dwight Eisenhower at the club.

The Soske's made the Pebble Beach home their primary residence and Stephen Soske, who grew up there with his siblings, recalled 'For a while, we had four horses.'

The newly-renovated home retains a lot of its original character, including the Spanish influence - seen here in the tiling on the stairs and the curved doorways

The kitchen in the property is newly renovated - but still showcases the Spanish Revival influence in the bright backsplash tiling and raw symmetric brick floor design

Selling the exclusive property is Ann Soske, 80, along with her three adult children. Soske purchased the home in the 1970s with her late husband Joshua Soske, who died in 2022

Now that the children are grown up, the home became the family's secondary residence.

For the last few years, Stephen has been overseeing the property's renovation, 'We wanted to update the rooms so that they looked more modern, while still maintaining the home’s heritage and architectural style.'

Pebble Beach is a small coastal residential community on the Monterey Peninsula in California that was founded in 1919

Original features of the home, like its iron window grilles and carved wooden doors, were retained and restored during the renovation.

The unique Douglas fir and terracotta flooring was kept while the kitchen and primary bathrooms were renovated.

Stephen declined to disclose the cost of the home-improvement project, but says that the home will be greatly missed.

“It’s going to be a real loss to our family,” he said.

Original features of the home, like its iron window grilles and carved wooden doors, were retained and restored during the renovation

The Soske's made the Pebble Beach home their primary residence and Stephen Soske, who grew up there with his siblings, recalled 'For a while, we had four horses'

The unique Douglas fir and terracotta flooring was kept while the kitchen and primary bathrooms were renovated

It's not unusual for Pebble Beach homes to bring in the big bucks, with another home being listed in the community last month for a staggering $39 million.

The record for most expensive house sold in Pebble Beach is held by a 3-acre estate which was sold for a whopping $36.9 million last year.