Presidential candidate Nikki Haley vowed Sunday to pardon former President Donald Trump should she defeat him in the Republican Primary and then win against Democrat president Joe Biden in November.

Despite trying to remain tough on the candidate as a primary opponent, Haley previously hinted that she would pardon Trump at a town hall prior to her third-place finish to Trump in the Iowa Caucuses.

Just six days ahead of a possible do-or-die primary in her home state of South Carolina where Trump is heavily favored, she confirmed that if the former president is found guilty, she would pardon him to unify America.

'I would pardon Donald Trump because I think it's important for the country to move on,' she said at a town hall in South Carolina Sunday.

Trump faces over a half dozen court cases related to election interference, the January 6 riots and falsifying business records.

Presidential candidate Nikki Haley vowed Sunday to pardon former President Donald Trump should she defeat him in the Republican Primary and President Joe Biden in November

'We've got to leave the negativity and the baggage behind. I don't want this country divided any further. I don't think it's in the best interest for America to have an 80-year-old president sitting in jail and having everybody upset about it,' she added.

She admitted that pardoning Trump wouldn't be 'a matter of innocence or guilt' because it 'means he would have already been found guilty' but said letting him free would be in the nation's best interest.

'I think this would be the time that we would need to move forward and get this out of the way,' she said.

Haley, the former governor of South Carolina who served as Trump's ambassador to the United Nations, attempted to bring her foreign policy chops to the stage when she hammered Trump on his relationship to China.

She called for a ban on China-owned TikTok and, while she acknowledged that President Biden should be ashamed of himself for posting on the platform ahead of the Super Bowl, Trump isn't good on the issue in her eyes, either.

'President Trump said he would ban TikTok, and when President Xi asked him not to, that fell to the wayside,' she said.

'We should have banned it from the beginning. It is incredibly dangerous.'

Despite admitting that the Republican Party had not catered enough to young people and Gen Z, she said of their preferred social platform: 'America can't be the last country to ban TikTok.'

Trump faces over a half dozen court cases related to election interference, the January 6 riots and falsifying business records

Just six days ahead of a possible do-or-die primary in her home state of South Carolina where Trump is heavily favored, Haley confirmed at a town hall that if the former president is found guilty, she would pardon him to unify America

Haley has often criticized the app's influence on Gen Z, saying that it has led them to see 'pro-Hamas' content in the wake of the terrorist attack on Israel last October.

She also criticized what she sees as Trump's close ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin in the wake of the death of Russian opposition leader Aleksei Navalny last week.

'I think that's why it's so damaging when Trump said that he would choose Putin and actually encouraged to invade NATO allies, instead of standing with our allies,' she added.

While there are civil cases among them, Trump faces the possibility of prison time if convicted in some of the cases.

Haley, who served as Trump's ambassador to the United Nations, has previously said that the pardon would be in the vain of Gerald Ford's 1974 pardon of Richard Nixon.

The ex-South Carolina governor lost the primary contests in Iowa, New Hampshire and Nevada. In the race for the Republican presidential nomination in 2024, Trump has 63 delegates compared to Haley's 17.

She is now looking to pick up more delegates in South Carolina next week – banking on the fact that she was elected governor twice and is popular amongst Republicans in the Palmetto State. But polling shows Trump is still far ahead of Haley in South Carolina's primary election.

The former Ambassador's campaign insisted she plans to stick in the running through at least Super Tuesday, where 15 different states will head to the polls in their respective primary elections.