It's been on sale for less than two weeks.

But many unhappy Apple customers are already returning their $3,500 Vision Pro headsets.

The futuristic headset was touted as the 'ultimate entertainment device', but appears to be causing severe health issues for some users.

Across social media, users have complained of headaches, eye strain, and even burst blood vessels after wearing the Vision Pro.

Taking to X (formerly Twitter), one user said: 'Apple Vision Pro is great for some things, but there is not a single day that has gone by that I used it that it did not cause me eye strain and a headache.'

It's been on sale for less than two weeks. But it seems that many unhappy Apple customers are already returning their $3,500 Vision Pro headsets (stock image)

Taking to X (formerly Twitter), one user said: 'Apple Vision Pro is great for some things, but there is not a single day that has gone by that I used it that it did not cause me eye strain and a headache'

The Vision Pro went on sale in the US on February 2, and is essentially a computer that is worn on your face.

Early reports indicated that it was hugely popular, with one analyst estimating that more than 200,000 units had been sold during the pre-order period alone.

However, it seems that many eager buyers are already regretting their purchases.

The weight of the device - estimated to be between one and 1.5 pounds - appears to be one of the key issues.

Taking to X, one user said: 'In case anyone is curious, I returned my Apple Vision Pro today.

'Too heavy/uncomfortable (no matter how many combinations of heads straps or facial interfaces that I tried).'

Another wrote: 'I bought the Apple Vision Pro and even though the technology is amazing… I returned it.

The Vision Pro went on sole in the US on February 2 , and is essentially a computer that is worn on your face

The weight of the device - estimated to be between one and 1.5 pounds - appears to be one of the key issues

Parker Ortolani, product manager at The Verge , who first reported the issue, also returned his device, claiming the 'phyiscal tradeoffs are just not worth it'

'It's heavy… wearing it on your head, no matter which of the two straps you wear, it really is heavy.'

Other users have reported eye strain and motion sickness while wearing the headset.

'This week I bought an Apple Vision Pro, but sadly have to return it. It gave me a bad headache and motion sickness,' one user tweeted.

Another added: 'It's hard on your eyes… if you ever wore glasses for the first time or contacts for the first time, you know what I am talking about. That's the same feeling with the Vision Pro.'

Parker Ortolani, product manager at The Verge, who first reported the issue, also returned his device, claiming the 'phyiscal tradeoffs are just not worth it.'

Continuing on Threads, Mr Ortolani blamed the headset for a burst blood vessel. 'I have developed a large bloody blotch on my right eye. Thanks Vision Pro,' he wrote. 'There is quite literally no other reason I can think of for having developed this. Just doesn't happen to my eyes. Not until now'

READ MORE: Watch the excruciating moment a YouTuber uses a scalpel to scrape across the screen of the $3,500 Apple Vision Pro Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sciencetech/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_3 - ->

Taking to Twitter, he wrote: 'What a bummer of a day. Can't believe it, but I've returned the Vision Pro.

'Just too uncomfortable to wear and it's a strain on my eyes. It's clearly the future. It works like magic.

'But the physical tradeoffs are just not worth it for me right now. I'll be back for the next one, assuming they fix these comfort issues.'

Continuing on Threads, Mr Ortolani blamed the headset for a burst blood vessel.

'I have developed a large bloody blotch on my right eye. Thanks Vision Pro,' he wrote.

'There is quite literally no other reason I can think of for having developed this. Just doesn't happen to my eyes. Not until now.'

The Verge points out that it's no coincidence that there has been an incrase of reports on social media of users saying they've returned their headsets this week.

'Apple allows you to return any product within 14 days of purchase — and for the first wave of Vision Pro buyers, we're right about at that point,' it explained.

Taking to X, one user said: 'In case anyone is curious, I returned my Apple Vision Pro today. 'Too heavy/uncomfortable (no matter how many combinations of heads straps or facial interfaces that I tried)'

On its support page, Apple says that the Vision Pro is 'designed for a comfortable viewing experience', although it adds that some people might 'experience symptoms of visual discomfort'.

'When you first start using Apple Vision Pro, take a break at least every 20 to 30 minutes,' the tech giant advises.

'If you experience visual discomfort, stop using the device until fully recovered from your symptoms.'

MailOnline has contacted Apple for comment.