A Sydney woman was willing to fork out hundreds of dollars for someone to help her tail her boyfriend after she suspected he was having an affair.

The woman, Adriana*, listed a job on Airtasker for $350, advertising her desperate need for reconnaissance.

'I need someone to drive me and a friend to Five Dock and sit in the car with us for a few hours so I can try and catch my cheating boyfriend,' she wrote.

A Sydney woman recently shared that she was willing to fork out hundreds of dollars if someone could help her tail her unfaithful boyfriend

The woman's desperate ask was advertised just before Valentine's Day

The ad was posted just before Valentine's Day as a plea to catch her boyfriend in the act before the romantic holiday.

It's not known if the operation was successful.

Others have previously gone through their partner's phones or even asked their friends to 'honey trap' their boyfriends.

But it clearly wasn't Adriana's style.

The post went viral and was shared on several social media websites with many chipping in with their thoughts on the matter.

'The way I would do this for free,' one said.

'Wow, who would've thought of putting it on Airtasker! This is genius,' another wrote.

But some didn't see the point of going through so much trouble and wasting $350.

'This never makes sense to me - if you don't trust him, just leave. The relationship is dead regardless of if he is cheating,' a woman said.

Adriana listed a job on Airtasker for $350, advertising her need for reconnaissance

Gabriella, a new mum, recently gave birth but was 'craving' Pistachio Papi and pledged $300 for whoever could pick up and deliver her a package of the cult food

She's not the first to take to the platform for an unusual request.

Popular Sydney cafe Son of a Baker hosted a weekend pop up last year featuring desserts and treats from Pistachio Papi, an online-only Aussie store for the nutty spread.

Simone Minas, a barber from the city's Inner West, was willing to pay $200 to someone who was willing to acquire a pistachio croissant for her.

Similarly Gabriella, a new mum, recently gave birth but was 'craving' Pistachio Papi and pledged $300 for whoever could pick up and deliver her a package of the cult food.

'It's not the first time people have turned to the local marketplace to help them get their hands on food they love, with similar tasks posted to get Lune Croissants and Cinnabons earlier this year at pop ups,' said Airtasker Founder and CEO Tim Fung.