Israel has threatened to invade Gaza's Rafah by the start of Ramadan if Hamas does not return the remaining hostages in a dark ultimatum condemned by international observers.

The United States and other governments, as well as the United Nations, have issued increasingly urgent appeals to Israel to call off its planned offensive on Rafah, where three-quarters of the displaced Palestinian population has fled.

Some 1.2 million people are now taking shelter in sprawling tent encampments without access to adequate food, water or medicine in the city that used to be home to just 250,000.

But the Israeli government says the city on the Egypt border is the last remaining stronghold in Gaza of the Palestinian militant group Hamas.

'The world must know, and Hamas leaders must know - if by Ramadan our hostages are not home, the fighting will continue everywhere, including the Rafah area,' Benny Gantz, a retired military chief of staff, told a conference of American Jewish leaders in Jerusalem on Sunday.

'Hamas has a choice. They can surrender, release the hostages and the civilians of Gaza can celebrate the feast of Ramadan,' added Gantz, a member of the three-person war cabinet.

Ramadan, the Muslim holy month, is expected to begin around March 10.

A view of destruction as the Palestinians try to continue their daily life amid Israeli attacks at the Jabalia Refugee Camp in Jabalia, Gaz on February 17, 2024

Search and rescue efforts continue to reach injured and killed Palestinians at the scene after Israeli forces hit and destroyed a residential building belongs to a Palestinian family in Deir al-Balah, Gaza on February 18, 2024

A Palestinian boy has his arm measured for malnutrition at a medical tent set up by MedGlobal in cooperation with UNICEF, amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and the Palestinian Islamist group Hamas, in Rafah, in the southern Gaza Strip, February 14, 2024

Palestinians inspect a house hit by an Israeli strike, in Rafah in the southern Gaza Strip February 16, 2024

A view of destruction after Israeli attack on Deir Al-Balah, Gaza on February 17, 2024

A general view from the makeshift tents where Palestinian families taking shelter as Israel's air, land and sea attacks continue on the Gaza Strip

A man is comforted by another man as people inspect the damage to their homes following Israeli air strikes on February 18, 2024 in Rafah, Gaza

Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu attends the annual Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations event in Jerusalem, 18 February 202

Gantz said the offensive will be carried out in coordination with American and Egyptian partners to 'minimise the civilian casualties as much as possible'.

But where Palestinians can go after four months of war have flattened vast swathes of the Strip remains unclear.

'There's no safe place. Even the hospital is not safe,' Ahmad Mohammed Aburizq told reporters from the morgue of a Rafah hospital where mourners gathered around a loved one wrapped in a white body bag.

'That's my cousin - he was martyred in Al-Mawasi, in the ''safe area''. And my mother was martyred the day before.'

For weeks, international mediators have sought to broker a truce-for-hostages deal that would pause fighting for six weeks.

But Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has played down the possibility of an impending breakthrough, calling Hamas's demands 'delusional' and vowing his forces would achieve 'total victory'.

Even if a deal is struck, he insists the campaign to eliminate Hamas from Gaza will not be completed until clearing Rafah.

'Deal or no deal, we have to finish the job to get total victory,' he said at the Jerusalem conference on Sunday.

With international pressure piling on Israel, the UN's top court will open a week of hearings from Monday examining the legal consequences of the country's 57-year occupation of Palestinian territories.

The hearings, requested by the UN General Assembly, are separate from South Africa's high-profile case alleging Israel is committing genocide in its current Gaza offensive.

At the UN's Security Council, the United States signalled it would veto the latest UN draft resolution seeking an immediate ceasefire should it come to a vote this week.

Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield said the resolution would jeopardise the ongoing truce talks, as well as the broader aim of 'an enduring resolution of hostilities'.

Western governments have increasingly pushed for unilateral recognition of a Palestinian state to be part of that wider peace process, but Israel's government on Sunday unanimously adopted a declaration rejecting such recognition.

'After the terrible massacre of October 7, there can be no greater reward for terrorism than that and it will prevent any future peace settlement,' Netanyahu said.

Hamas has meanwhile threatened to suspend its involvement in any ceasefire negotiations unless relief supplies reach Gaza's north, where aid agencies have warned of looming famine.

A Palestinian woman, who took refuge in the city of Rafah, cooks a meal for dozens of hungry children

People inspect the damage to their homes following Israeli air strikes on February 18, 2024 in Rafah

People look on the rubble of destroyed houses following Israeli airstrike in Deir Al Balah town southern Gaza Strip, 17 February 2024

Palestinians inspect the collapsed building following an Israeli strike hit the house belonging to the Abu Nahal family in Rafah, Gaza on February 18, 2024

A picture taken from Rafah shows smoke billowing over Khan Yunis in the southern Gaza Strip during Israeli bombardment on February 18, 2024

An injured Palestinian man, who took refuge in the city of Rafah, is seen with crutches in front of the makeshift tents where Palestinian families are taking shelter

A Palestinian woman, who took refuge in the city of Rafah, cooks bread on wood fire inside a makeshift tent as Israel's air, land and sea attacks continue on the Gaza Strip on February 18, 2024 in Rafah, Gaza

Displaced Palestinian girls from Rafah walk play at their shelter in Deir Al Balah, southern Gaza Strip, 18 February 2024

On Sunday morning, dozens of Israelis blocked Gaza-bound aid trucks from entering through the Nitzana crossing with Egypt, AFP reporters and the Palestinian Red Crescent Society said.

Gazans say they are going so hungry they are grinding animal feed into flour.

'My children are starving, they wake up crying from hunger. Where do I get food for them?' a northern Gazan woman told AFP.

The UN agency for Palestinian refugees said nearly three in four people are drinking contaminated water.

'The speed of deterioration in Gaza is unprecedented,' it said.

After a week-long siege, the largest hospital still functional in Gaza is no longer operational, according to the World Health Organization.

At least 20 of the 200 patients still at the Nasser Hospital urgently require relocation to other facilities, WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said, adding that his organisation 'was not permitted to enter' the site.

Seven patients, including a child, have died there since Friday due to power cuts, and '70 medical staff including intensive care doctors' have been arrested, according to the Hamas-run health ministry.

Israeli military spokesman Richard Hecht said diesel and oxygen supplies had been delivered on Saturday and a temporary generator was running.

Israeli troops in Khan Yunis were still operating around the hospital on Sunday after the military said it had 'located additional weapons'.

Israel has concentrated its military operations in Khan Yunis, just a few kilometres from Rafah and the hometown of Hamas's Gaza leader Yahya Sinwar, who is accused of orchestrating the October 7 attack.

The Hamas assault that launched the war killed about 1,160 people in Israel, mostly civilians, according to an AFP tally of Israeli figures.

Militants also took about 250 hostages, 130 of whom remain in Gaza, including 30 presumed dead, according to Israel.

Israel's retaliatory campaign in Gaza has killed at least 28,985 people, mostly women and children, according to the territory's health ministry.