Romeo Beckham, 21, paid tribute to his famous parents, soccer legend David Beckham, 48, and fashion designer and former Spice Girl Victoria Beckham, 49, in an unusual way.

The young footballer – who has fueled rumors of a split from his model girlfriend Mia Regan – following in his father's footsteps as a player wore a light blue sweater with a twist.

His dad's image was knitted onto the front and both parents' images were on the back.

Romeo, who is the second of the couple's four kids, gave a cheeky smirk to the camera as his photo was being taken.

Fans jumped into the comments to praise him for the unusual but fun sweater and inquire where they could buy one for themselves.

Romeo Beckham, 21, paid tribute to his famous parents, soccer legend David Beckham , 48, and fashion designer and former Spice Girl Victoria Beckham , 49 in an unusual way

The young footballer following in his father's footsteps as a player wore a light blue sweater with a twist

Romeo was born in September 2002 and is the younger brother of the couple's first son Brooklyn, 24. He also has another brother, Cruz, 18, and a little sister, Harper, 12.

His parents have said he's grown up to be a truly 'kind' and 'generous young man.'

On his 21st birthday in 2023, mom Victoria – who once was known to the world as Posh Spice – left a gushing tribute to her son.

'We are so proud of you and we love you more than words can express, you are our everything," Victoria wrote.

Romeo's true passion is football like his dad but he's also dipped into fashion like his mom as a model for Burberry and Vogue.

Romeo started dating model Mia Regan, 21, in 2019 and moved in with her last month.

However, the cute couple have sparked breakup rumors when they both failed to post Valentine's Day tributes to each other last week.

The couple took a break from their relationship in 2022 but later reunited.

His dad's image was knitted onto the front and both parents' images were on the back. Romeo, who is the second of the couple's four kids, gave a cheeky smirk to the camera as his photo was being taken

Fans jumped into the comments to praise him for the unusual but fun sweater and inquire where they could buy one for themselves

Romeo's true passion is football like his dad but he's also dipped into fashion like his mom as a model for Burberry and Vogue

Romeo is the second of four kids of his famous parents

Romeo started dating model Mia Regan, 21, in 2019 and moved in with her last month

However, the cute couple have sparked breakup rumors when they both failed to post Valentine's Day tributes to each other last week

However, neither has shared photos of the other in several weeks which has left fans wondering what their situation and status are.

Instead of Mia, Romeo spent Valentine's Day with his mother Victoria. The fashion designer, 49, was joined by her second eldest child for a meal at Dorian bistro in Notting Hill, west London.

It was also noted that Romeo had been following stunning models on Instagram during the same time period, according to The Sun.

Mia has been vacationing over the last month which some suggested could explain the lack of interactions and posts between the pair.