Ian Wright has insisted Kobbie Mainoo must be in Gareth Southgate's next England squad for his impressive breakthrough at Manchester United.

Earlier this week, Mail Sport reported that the 18-year-old was keeping his international options open, with the starlet also eligible to represent Ghana.

But during Man United's game at Luton Town on Sunday, Wright said that Mainoo must be included in Southgate's England plans in March, as they continue preparations for Euro 2024 with friendlies against Brazil and Belgium.

Wright posted on X (formerly Twitter): 'Kobbie Mainoo has to be in the next England squad. Such maturity in chaotic conditions that we've not seen from a England player in a long time. Impressed every time I watch him.'

Gary Lineker also supported the call to include Mainoo in the squad, replying: 'Agreed @IanWright0. What a fabulous young player.'

Ian Wright and Gary Lineker insist on Kobbie Mainoo's inclusion in the England squad

Wright claimed he had not seen Mainoo's 'maturity' in an England player 'in a long time'

Your browser does not support iframes.

As well as Mainoo, Wright also backed 23-year-old Angel Gomes to make the step up from England's age-related youth teams into the senior squad.

Gomes made an assist as his Ligue 1 team Lille beat Le Havre on Saturday.

Wright said: 'And equally not seeing enough love and flowers for Angel Gomes and what he's consistently doing at Lille in the center of midfield. Another top performance yesterday. Call him up and have a look at him.'

Gomes was a member of the squad that won the 2023 Euros at under-21 level with England, but has flown under the radar for the senior team as he plies his trade in France.

Mainoo will accept an England call-up, having already represented them at under 16, under 18 and under 19 level, but no definitive decision has been made on his international career.

The FA are confident of retaining Stockport-born Mainoo’s services, but have not been given any guarantees.

The midfielder player qualifies for Ghana through his parents, with Ghana FA Board member Randy Abbey telling The Times that they are hopeful of persuading Mainoo to switch his allegiance to the Black Stars.

England manager Southgate watched Mainoo’s 10th successive Premier League start for Man United in their 2-1 win at Aston Villa last week, and he continued that streak at Kenilworth Road on Sunday.

Under FIFA eligibility rules, a player can change their nationality at any time if they have only played in friendlies, while those aged under 21 can also switch after three years if they have played fewer than three competitive matches.

The 18-year-old has played an integral part in Man United's uptick in form in recent weeks.

Wright said he wanted to see Lille midfielder Angel Gomes make the step up to the senior team

The 18-year-old Mainoo has been integral in Man United's uptick in form in recent weeks

Mainoo has represented England at multiple youth levels and has played six times for the U19s

While Mainoo has impressed in a defensive midfield role for United, Southgate is convinced he will develop into a box-to-box attacking player, putting him in the same bracket as Jude Bellingham and Phil Foden rather than Declan Rice and Kalvin Phillips.

England welcome Brazil to Wembley on March 23, three days before they entertain Belgium at the same venue, with both games allowing Southgate to explore his options for the squad ahead of the Euro 2024 tournament which gets underway in June.