UFC superstar Conor McGregor has predicted exactly how he sees Australian champion Alexander Volkanovski defeating Ilia Topuria at UFC 298.

The pair meet in Anaheim, Californiaon Sunday (AEDT), with Volkanovski chasing a sixth title defence on his return to the 145-pound division.

The Aussie only trails Brazilian José Aldo (7) in the all-time UFC featherweight title defences - and McGregor is confident he will get the job done.

Taking to X, McGregor said: 'Awesome night of UFC fights tonight! [Ian] Garry is going to run thru Geoff [Neal] in the first round.

'Volk will get hurt early but come back and KO Ilia. Over in 2 rounds. [Paulo] Costa and [Robert] Whittaker will have a good 3 round exchange as will Merab [Dvalishvili] and Henry [Cejudo].

Conor McGregor sees Alexander Volkanovski getting a knockout win against Ilia Topuria

Volkanovski is chasing a sixth title defence on his return to the 145-pound division

'Have a good evening everyone and remember, Proper Whiskey, Forged Irish Stout, and McGregor rule the roost, baby!'

UFC fighters aged 35 and over - in men's divisions below middleweight - have a record of wining just two of 33 fights, so 35-year-old Volkanovski has history against him.

The Aussie arrived for the official weigh-in for UFC 298 dressed like an old man to play up on the 'experienced' campaigner line in a move that did not amuse Topuria in the slightest.

Asked about the gimmick, Volkanovski said: 'Just having a bit of fun with it, you know what I mean? You've got to do it. And for the people as well! Everyone appreciated the outfit so I wanted to do it in person.'

'I think this old man needs to teach this young fella a lesson, what do you reckon?'

Topuria says: 'You see how you came dressed, you already know what's going to happen. You came ready for retirement, old man.'

Volkanovski declared: 'He'll get a good spanking, that's what's gonna happen.'

Topuria replied: 'He said he's going to humble me. Stand up and do something. Humble me!'

History is against 35-year-old Volkanovski - but the Aussie is quietly confident

The Aussie has vowed to teach his 'cocky' opponent an important lesson

The pair stood up – Volkanovski very slowly, in full old-man mode.

'Saturday night I'm gonna look mean and lean, I'm coming for my head,' Volkanovski said.

Topuria replied: 'I'm gonna humble you, I'm gonna show you. I'm gonna walk (wipe) the floor with you.'

Volkanovski hit back: 'I'm gonna make this look easy.'

Topuria said: 'I'm gonna tear your head off.'

The war of words continued with Volkanovski even branding Topuria a 'Conor McGregor wannabe' as the Spaniard borrowed some of the famous Irishman's moves including holding the belt away from the Aussie.

The NSW native last fought in October when he moved up to lightweight and accepted a rematch with Islam Makhachev on 11 days notice, a fight he went on to lose in the first round.

Spurred by a full training camp and enjoying his opponent playing the villain in the media, Volkanovski, 35, says the title bout is all about him exuding his experience and teaching the 'young cocky kid' a lesson.

'He has to talk a big game, he doesn't really have much to back it,' the Australian champion told AAP.

'I just need to be that experienced fighter that goes out there and teaches the young cocky kid a lesson.'