Australian actress Madeleine Maxwell is arguably one of the wildest and most outrageous brides to ever grace Married At First Sight.

And during Monday night's episode, the 30-year-old psychic medium had a premonition that disaster was looming just minutes after meeting her match.

After posing for photos with groom Ash Galati, Madeleine needed a moment for herself while she received a 'download'.

'You're a married woman. How does that feel for you?' asked a producer off camera.

'Yeah, I don't know. I just, sorry, one second,' she replied, closing her eyes.

Australian actress Madeleine Maxwell is arguably one of the wildest and most outrageous brides to ever grace Married At First Sight

During Monday night's episode, the 30-year-old psychic medium had a premonition that disaster was looming just minutes after meeting her match

'Are you receiving things right now?' she was then questioned to which she replied, 'Yeah. Um. About us. Yeah. What did you learn? I'm getting, like, really bad vibes.'

Maddy then explained: 'I feel like things have shifted because I got a download about where it was going. They were showing me something.'

Maddy went on to say the information she received was 'helpful' and now she is just waiting for 'guidance' on her next steps.

After posing for photos with groom Ash Galati, Madeleine needed a moment for herself while she received a 'download'

'Are you receiving things right now?' she was then questioned

Ash described the photoshoot with Madeline as somewhat awkward.

'I'm still trying to get a gist of her and her personality. But she seems very quiet during the photo shoot,' he said.

Things then took a turn for the better, when Ash revealed that he had a terrible night's sleep because he felt a ghostly presence throughout his sleep.

'I feel like things have shifted because I got a download about where it was going. They were showing me something,' she said

Ash described the photoshoot with Madeline as somewhat awkward

'Creepy stuff. Like, just when I was sleeping, I thought there was, like, something,' he tried to explain.

'It was super weird. The house was probably haunted, I don't know.'

Maddy was quick to respond: 'I love that,' before revealing his confession helped the pair form an unlikely connection.

'I just feel better now because I feel like he was aware. He's aware that he had an experience. And I love that he was open to psychic stuff. I'm used to things changing fast, but wow, that changed really fast. The energy shifted really fast,' she said.

Married At First Sight continues Tuesday at 7.30pm on Channel Nine