READ MORE: Swiftie Mieka Pokarier's final days revealed before she was killed in crash in Dubbo, NSW

Fans attending one of Taylor Swift's Sydney shows are being encouraged to wear special friendship bracelets in honour of a fellow-Swiftie who died on the way to her Melbourne concert.

Mieka Pokarier, 16, was killed when the SUV she was traveling in with her mother and sister collided with a semi-trailer near Dubbo, in central-west NSW at about 6pm on Thursday.

The family had been driving to Melbourne from the Gold Coast on the 'trip of a lifetime' to see Swift perform the Australian leg of her Eras tour.

Mieka's younger sister Freya, 10, was seriously injured in the crash on Dunedoo Road, at Ballimore.

She was airlifted to Westmead Hospital where she remains in a coma with brain injuries, a damaged pelvis and a broken leg.

Mieka (pictured right) and Freya were on the trip of a lifetime' to see Taylor Swift perform on the Australian leg of her Eras tour when Mieka was killed

Taylor Swift is pictured performing at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on February 16, 2024. She is due to perform a series of Sydney shows this week

Their mum, Kim Litchfield, was also injured and taken to Dubbo Hospital, and has since travelled to Sydney to be by her youngest daughter’s bedside. Her husband and another one of Mieka's siblings are currently keeping a vigil.

Swift's fans, known as Swifties, swap self-made bracelets with each other during concerts. They are being urged to make and share them in honour of Mieka, with her name on them.

In a post made to Taylor Swift Eras Tour Facebook page a fan called on Swifties to wear a friendship bracelet with Mieka's name.

‘To honour them the family is asking everyone to wear a friendship bracelet with her name so its like she's still there. Mieka is her name.’

‘I will also be handing out bracelets with her name in her honour as well.'

On Monday the children’s godmother Karleigh Fox, who organised a GoFundMe appeal, said Freya remains in a critical yet stable condition.

Taylor Swift fans are being urged to wear friendship bracelets with the word 'Mieka' on them to one of her Sydney shows

Fans are being encouraged to wear and share friendship bracelets in Mieka's honour

Mieka was a fan of the global pop star for over 10 years

'Yes, she had brain surgery and has multiple injuries.' she wrote in a post on social media.'

'Yes, there are multiple surgeries and many therapies ahead on this long road.'

'Yes there is the potential for this to be life threatening, BUT there is also the potential for miracles and recovery!'

Both sisters were enrolled in the Gold Coast Youth Theatre Academy.

Ms Fox paid tribute to Mieka describing her as 'smart and creative' whose life was cut short too soon.

'She’s been a Taylor Swift fan for over 10 years, and she loved maths, she loved pottery, she was always making people things with pottery and going to classes,' she wrote.

NSW Police said in a statement that the crash is under investigation.

A report will be prepared for the coroner.