Micah Richards has opened up on what life was like inside the London 2012 Olympic village, joking that he was 'on fire'.

The former Manchester City defender was one of 18 players selected by Stuart Pearce for the Team GB squad 12 years ago.

Captained by Ryan Giggs, the team also includes the likes of Daniel Sturridge, Craig Bellamy, Aaron Ramsey.

However, they only reached the quarter-finals after losing to South Korea on penalties following a missed spot-kick by Sturridge.

The London games saw sportspeople from across the world living together in close proximity, and Richards has revealed the sex-mad lifestyle of athletes inside the Olympic village.

Micah Richards has revealed the sex-mad lifestyle of athletes at the London 2012 Olympics

Richards (top row, centre) was one of 18 players selected for the squad, which also included the likes of Ryan Giggs, Craig Bellamy, Daniel Sturridge and Aaron Ramsey

Athletes across the world lived in close proximity during the London Olympics in 2012 and Richards revealed there was a 'massive room full of condoms'

Richards pictured leaving the Olympics Village to head to training alongside his team-mates

Richards told the Rest is Football podcast: 'It was the party of all parties. You got all the different athletes, all sorts of different specimens in there.

'Absolutely everything was there, we had McDonalds there, a Chinese, a big cafeteria with everything you want, it's free.

'It's what I imagine when you go to uni when you're in halls and sharing a room, I was with Daniel Sturridge.

'We were there for three nights, we went training, come back to the village, them three nights we were up to 4am.

'You have different campuses, Team GB in one block, Brazil, France, all these countries, and there's a massive big room full of condoms!

'It was like what, obviously promoting safe sex, and honest to god, I was on fire.

'I was on absolute fire, honestly. I was a little slimmer, a bit more ripped, bit more lean, it was summer time, walking around with my top off.

'There was multiple gold medals. one of the best times of my life, it was incredible.'

Richards joked that he was 'on fire,' though Team GB only reached the quarter-finals

Richards also revealed that he was snubbed by Kobe Bryant when asking him for an autograph

Alan Shearer in response joked: 'No wonder you lot got beat on penalties, you were absolutely knackered.'

Team GB London 2012 squad Goalkeepers - Jack Butland, Jason Steele Defenders - Neil Taylor, Ryan Bertrand, Steven Caulker, Craig Dawson, James Tomkins and Micah Richards Midfielders - Danny Rose, Tom Cleverley, Joe Allen, Ryan Giggs, Jack Cork, Aaron Ramsey and Scott Sinclair Forwards - Daniel Sturridge, Craig Bellamy and Marvin Sordell Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sport/football/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

The sex-mad lifestyle of Olympic villages is no secret with organisers even providing condoms to promote safe-sex.

During the London 2012 Olympics, some 150,000 condoms were shipped to the village where over 10,500 athletes took part in the Games.

The Standard reported that at the Rio 2016 Olympics, this number trebled up to 450,000.

Only 160,000 were given out at the Tokyo Olympics in 2021, though organisers told athletes they can't use them and must 'take them home' to avoid unnecessary physical contact at the Covid-delayed Games.

Richards, previously addressed the matter speaking on the Greatest Game podcast, as per the Daily Star, with Jamie Carragher back in 2021.

Back then he said: 'We were in the village, it was chaos. Just imagine the Olympic village with all these athletes, all this testosterone, and it's a free-for-all.'

'You've got this massive food hall, you've got a Chinese. You didn't have KFC but you had Indian, McDonald's, as much as you want. You've got mega-stars there. So GB might have their block, but everyone's just together.'

Carragher followed up by asking: 'When you were in the village, did you get rid of that testosterone?'

Richards responded: 'Well, you wanted to!'

Richards meanwhile also revealed that he was snubbed by NBA legend Kobe Bryant after asking if he could have an autograph.

The football pundit said: 'Kobe Bryant was there, people were taking pictures with him, we were standing around exploring the village. I went up to say 'legend, is it possible to have a photo', and he said 'no not right now!'

'I never felt so silly in all my life, he didn't have a clue who Big Meeks was.'