Known for helping create one of the most iconic images of a rock band, this legendary rocker helped forge hard hitting anthems on the road to superstardom.

But right from the start he had to overcome the odds in life and tap into an inner strength in order to succeed.

He was born in Manhattan in the early 1950s with a birth defect to his right ear called microtia, leaving him deaf on that side his entire life.

Despite being taunted by other children for his deformed ear, this budding musician was still able to become the singer and frontman of a band that helped bring back theater to the big rock stage in the 1970s, resulting in a six decade run.

Can you guess who this man is from a couple of photos taken from his recent afternoon out with his 12-year-old daughter?

He was born with a birth defect to his right ear called microtia, leaving him deaf on that side his entire life, but yet was still able to forge a career as a singer-guitarist for one of biggest rock band of all time

This mystery man was not born and raised in New York City, but he also helped form his band that went on to become one of the most successful on the rock genre of all time

It's none other than Paul Stanley of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inductees, KISS.

The rocker, now 72, was spotted while out eating ice cream with his 12-year-old daughter Emily in the Studio City neighborhood of Los Angeles on Thursday, the day after Valentine's Day.

And while KISS are known for their edgy images of face makeup and spaceman-like outfits, complete with massive platform boots, on this day Stanley (born Stanley Bert Eisen) kept it much more simpler in the fashion department in black fitted pants with a matching leather jacket and t-shirt.

In a heartwarming scene outside the shoppe, Emily was kind enough to give her dad a taste of her sweet treat by feeding him a spoon herself.

The pre-teen looked like the picture of a daddy's girl when they offered to pose for a photographer during their afternoon together.

While eating from her cup of ice cream, Emily seemed to be relishing in her time with her father, who's been a hero to millions of rock fans since KISS first formed out of New York City in 1973 when he hooked up with Gene Simmons (bass, vocals), Ace Frehley (lead guitar, vocals) and Peter Criss (drums, vocals).

The group rose to prominence in the mid-1970s with their shock rock-style live performances featuring fire-breathing, blood-spitting, smoking guitars, shooting rockets, levitating drum kits, and fiery pyrotechnics.

Starting in 1974, KISS released 20 studio albums (24 counting the unified 1978 solo albums), 13 live albums, and 60 singles.

It's Paul Stanley, the singer and frontman for the legendary rock band KISS

The singer and guitarist, now 72, served as the main singer for the hard rock outfit, en route to becoming one of the most revered live shows in rock history

In fact, it was their 1975 live album Alive! that helped cement them on the road to becoming one of the most successful rock bands of all time.

At one point, around 1983, the members sensed a change was needed and they proceeded to perform without their trademark makeup.

Selling more than 100 million albums, KISS has earned 30 Gold albums, the most of any band from the U.S., and 14 Platinum albums, three of which earned multi-Platinum status.

Among their most recognizable songs include I Was Made For Loving You, Love Gun, Rock And Roll All Nite, Shout It Out Loud, Shock Me, Detroit Rock City, God Of Thunder, Beth, Hard Luck Woman, Deuce and Hotter Than Hell, among many others.

Ultimately, the original four members - Stanley, Simmons, Frehley and Criss - went on to be inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in April 2014.

As part of their End Of The Road World Tour in December 2023, KISS performed their final show at Madison Square Garden in New York City on December 3, 2023.

Formed in New York City in 1973, KISS are known for their trademark makeup and spaceman-like outfits and their shock rock-style live performances featuring fire-breathing, blood-spitting, smoking guitars, shooting rockets, levitating drum kits, and fiery pyrotechnics

In need of the change, KISS ended up shelving the face paint and outrageous ensemble for a more natural and tradition rock 'n' roll image from 1983-1996

In an interview with CNN, Stanley shared how he was able to listen and create music throughout his lifetime despite his lack of hearing in his deformed right ear.

'I was born with a Level 3 Microtia, which is a congenital deformity of the cartilage of the outer ear, and occurs in approximately 1 out of every 8,000 to 10,000 births,' he explained.

Microtia is a birth defect of a baby's ear in which the external ear is small and not properly formed, according to the CDC. It usually occurs during the first few weeks of pregnancy.

The Black Diamond star went on to describe his situation as having no ear canal and no direct path to the inner workings of the ear.

'I'm virtually deaf on my right side, as there is no access for sound to enter,' he added, before revealing that he eventually got an implanted hearing aid.

Stanley shares three of his four children with his wife of more than 18 years, Erin Bowen

The legendary frontman, who only just retired from KISS when the y played their last show in December, can be seen fawning over his daughter Emily on social media

This is a device that is usually given to children at an early age or to adults who have lost their hearing due to a medical condition. But since he didn't start using the hearing aid until later in life, the change has been an ongoing adjustment for his brain because it had 'never processed sound coming in from my right side.'

The New York City native confessed he has long been asked how his hearing problem affected his career in music.

'It's sometimes hard for people to understand that you don't miss what you've never had,' he said. 'I haven't felt at a loss for anything. I have no sense of the direction of sound, yet I have no trouble mixing a stereo album. I hear the expanse or width of sound but I can't necessarily tell you where it's coming from.'

Along with Emily, Stanley also shares his son Colin, 17, and daughter Sarah, 15, with his wife of more than 18 years — Erin Bowen.

The rocker also has a son Evan, 29, from his marriage to Pamela Bowen from 1992 to 2001.