Woke medics are calling on Britain's biggest GP body to cancel a 'gender critical' conference at its HQ because it is platforming 'transphobic' speakers.

The Clinical Advisory Network on Sex and Gender (CAN-SG) will hold the event at the Royal College of General Practitioners (RCGP)'s conference centre in London next month.

Speakers, including GPs, psychiatrists and sociology professors, are set to discuss 'controversies in the care of children', including sex-based language in healthcare and the 'impacts of gender medicine on same-sex attracted youth'.

The College — which represents 50,000-plus members — has said the event is not affiliated with or approved by it.

But doctors have slammed the RCGP's 'accidental endorsement', warning LGBTQ+ patients already feel unsafe and have a difficult relationship with the NHS.

The College — which represents 50,000-plus members — has said the event is not affiliated with or approved by it. But d octors have slammed the RCGP's 'accidental endorsement', warning LGBTQ + patients already feel unsafe and have a difficult relationship with the NHS

Activists, however, pointed to others such as CAN-SG member Stella OʼMalley, a psychotherapist and author, who has expressed concern about children presenting with gender dysphoria being placed on a pathway to medical transition. She is a vocal advocate for ‘gender exploratory therapy’, which critics have described as being akin to ‘conversion therapy’ – something she strongly refutes. Another, Oxford University sociology professor Michael Biggs (pictured right), was accused in 2018 of running a troll account that targeted trans people online

Among the event's speakers include education leads for NHS gender services for children and professors of obstetrics. Professor Susan Bewley (pictured left) is a professor emeritus of obstetrics and women’s health. Dr Az Hakeem (pictured right) has publicly opposed the upcoming ban on conversion practices. He was accused in 2022 of 'attempting to practice' transgender conversion therapy, although the GMC confirmed that no action would be taken against him in relation to the allegations, which he strongly denied.

One psychotherapist involved in the conference previously controversially claimed teenage trans patients are fetishists and has also advocated for certain gender identity conversion efforts.

Pride RCGP group, an informal network set up to deliver educational programmes and Pride events, said the event would worsen the trust the LGBTQ+ community has with general practice.

In a post on X, formerly known as Twitter, Dr Richard Ma, a GP and member of Pride RCGP, added: 'While we believe we need honest & respectful discussions to improve care of gender-questioning young people, we should not have to share a platform with people who invalidate or dehumanise lived experiences of trans/non-binary peers/patients. Our community does not feel safe.'

The Trans Safety Network, a collective established in 2020 to record evidence of transphobia in the UK, said: 'It is scandalous that the RCGP should be hosting this event organised by hate groups posing as a scientific conference.'

The RCGP today said the conference at 30 Euston Square 'can go ahead'.

A statement said: 'This is an extremely complex situation that the RCGP has been inadvertently drawn into, and we have spent the past few days in intense and wide-ranging discussions.

'We understand the concerns and strength of feeling that this event has provoked, particularly among our LGBTQ+ community of GPs and patients.

'The legal considerations are such that the College would be at risk of being faced with a claim for breaching the Equalities Act if we acted otherwise.'

It added: '30ES is the headquarters of the RCGP but also an event space run by an independent events company.'

Until last week, former RCGP chair Dr Clare Gerada was scheduled to speak at the event. The reasons for her withdrawal is not known.

Among the event's speakers include education leads for NHS gender services for children and professors of obstetrics.

Activists, however, pointed to others such as CAN-SG member Stella OʼMalley, a psychotherapist and author, who has expressed concern about children presenting with gender dysphoria being placed on a pathway to medical transition.

She is a vocal advocate for ‘gender exploratory therapy’, which critics have described as being akin to ‘conversion therapy’ – something she strongly refutes.

Another, Oxford University sociology professor Michael Biggs, was accused in 2018 of running a troll account that targeted trans people online.

The account was registered to a Yahoo! email that was believed to be connected to Professor Biggs's official Oxford University email address.

Dr Az Hakeem, meanwhile, has publicly opposed the upcoming ban on conversion practices. He was accused in 2022 of 'attempting to practice' transgender conversion therapy, although the GMC confirmed that no action would be taken against him in relation to the allegations, which he strongly denied.

Responding to the backlash, other GPs called on the RCGP not to cancel the event and let 'intolerant' bullies 'intimidate and dictate what others are allowed to talk about'.

One wrote on GP magazine Pulse's website: 'RGCP please don’t allow these intolerant bully’s to intimidate and dictate what others are allowed to talk about.

The RCGP today said the conference at 30 Euston Square 'can go ahead'. A statement said: 'This is an extremely complex situation that the RCGP has been inadvertently drawn into, and we have spent the past few days in intense and wide-ranging discussions.' Until last week, former RCGP chair Dr Clare Gerada was scheduled to speak at the event. The reasons for her withdrawal is not known

The Clinical Advisory Network on Sex and Gender (CAN-SG) will hold the event at the Royal College of General Practitioners (RCGP)'s conference centre in London (pictured) next month

'This kind of intimidation is a threat to democracy.'

Another read: 'It would be completely inappropriate to cancel this event.

'The care of transgender and questioning individuals is complex and it deserves proper and careful scrutiny, particularly in context of care for children with gender dysphoria.

'The evidence base for puberty blockers and children transitioning is highly uncertain and it is contested.'

They added: 'There is nothing transphobic about the CAN-SG organisation and there is no reason to use the hyperbole of "feeling unsafe".

'Pride RCGP should welcome such opportunities to widen the breadth of evidence, and to maximise safety of children in their care who may present with gender dysphoria.'

A third wrote: 'As an out and queer GP in a 28 year relationship with a transgender person I feel I can speak with some experience.

'We both feel that legitimate debate on trans matters is indeed being suppressed by fascistic trans fanatics doing real harm to some young people. Stand fast RCGP.'