Waddling around the perimeter of a prison in Brazil's southern state of Santa Catarina, geese have edged out their canine predecessors on patrols to make sure inmates do not escape.

Between breaks in their on-site pond at Sao Pedro de Alcantara prison, the honking birds, dubbed 'geese agents', police a green space between the inside fence and main outer wall.

Staff say the vigilance of the geese makes them excellent guard animals, even more so than dogs.

'We have electronic surveillance, in-person surveillance... and finally the surveillance of the geese, which replaced the dogs,' said prison director Marcos Roberto de Souza.

Piu-Piu heads the small flock, leading fellow geese in their oversight of the premises. When officers call his name, he emits a distinctive honk.

A gaggle of guards: Sao Pedro de Alcantara prison in Brazil's southern state of Santa Catarina uses geese (above) to patrol the perimeter. They are naturally territorial, meaning they will automatically kick up a fuss if someone unknown enters their space. And, crucially, they're extremely loud

Call the po-geese: Piu-Piu, a male goose, is the proud leader of the flock and known for his distinctive honk

Souza said tending the flock of geese is also more affordable than raising dogs and that the quiet location of the prison makes it a viable option for his facility.

'Night time is very quiet. Even during the day as you can see it is a very silent place and at night even more so... The space favours this type of security in the case of the geese,' he said.

Several factors make geese surprisingly effective guard animals, noted nationalgeographic.com. Their eyesight is excellent - sharper and more accurate than humans - as is their hearing. And they are naturally territorial, meaning they will automatically kick-up a fuss if someone unknown enters their space.

And, crucially, they're extremely loud.

Prison beak: Between breaks in their on-site pond, the honking birds patrol a green space between the prison's inside fence and main outer wall

Feathered force: The geese are less expensive to maintain than guard dogs, and less likely to raise a false alarm due to boredom than their canine compatriots

Prison director Marcos Roberto de Souza noted that the quiet prison makes it ideal for a poultry patrol: 'Night time is very quiet... The space favors this type of security in the case of the geese'

Geese on guard through the ages

While the idea of a honking horde of feathered guards may seem unusual, geese have actually been deployed by humans strategically throughout history.

In 390 BC, Roman historian Livy recorded an incident of geese honking an alert and saving Rome from a stealth Gaul invasion at the Battle of Allia. A Gaul garrison was attempting to seize the Capitoline Hill, taking entrance via the Temple of Juno under cover of night. Their approach was thwarted when honking geese roused the sleeping Romans to ward off the invaders.

Roman author Pliny the Elder wrote: 'The goose is carefully watchful. Witness the defense of the capitol when the silence of the dogs would have betrayed nothing.'

Following the Battle of Allia geese were assigned divine status by the Ancient Romans.

Doubt this tale's authenticity? More contemporary examples abound.

From 1959 to 2012, a gaggle of guard geese known as the 'Scotch Watch' patrolled 14 acres of warehouses housing Scottish whisky in Dumbuck, Scotland, under the rule of a head goose named 'Mr Ballantine', reported scotchwhisky.com.

At the peak of its power, this security battalion numbered 100 geese.

The birds successfully safe-kept £300million pounds worth of Scotch for over six decades.

And in October 2021, reported globaltimes.cn, the Chinese government deployed some 500 geese to the Chinese-Vietnam border, ready to bite or honk at anyone attempting to break Covid quarantine rules and enter China illegally.

The birds required no training and stood guard across 300 miles of the Chongzuo Prefecture.