LATEST BANK OF ENGLAND NEWS AND BOFE UPDATES

Energy bills 'set to fall by 15%' from April: Closely-watched forecast shows typical costs dropping to £1,635 a year in huge relief for Brits... and boost for hopes of interest rate cuts Closely-watched forecasts by Cornwall Insights show typical costs should drop to £1,635 a year, from the current level of £1,928. Despite disruption in the Red Sea, the firm expects Ofgem to cap the price of a unit of gas at 5.96p and electricity at 23.27p from April 1. The watchdog is due to confirm the price cap next Friday, but its calculations are based on the same data as used by the analysts. Although the reduction is less than had been anticipated previously, it will be a major boost for the struggle to rein in rampant inflation. It is likely to increase pressure on the Bank of England to go for early interest rate cuts, although Threadneedle Street has stressed it is focused on domestic rather than international factors....read Domestic energy bills 'are set to fall by 15%' from April

Fujitsu won £1.4 billion in new government contracts AFTER its role in the Post Office scandal was exposed at the High Court The Japanese communications firm is set to have received more than £3.4 billion through contracts running with Treasury-linked organisations since 2019, MPs have found. Fujitsu won £1.4 billion in new contracts after post office scandal

How chain-smoking, tattooed Lady Venetia Baring - who claims her grandmother 'didn't really like' Princess Diana - says she lives 'paycheque to paycheque' Speaking to Tatler , the daughter of the 4th Earl of Cromer and his second wife Shelley Hu Cheng-Yu, opened up about carving out her own identity despite a strict, stately upbringing. The red-haired rebel dubbed the new 'face of aristocracy'

EDEN CONFIDENTIAL: Earl gives his daughter the Tatler 'It girl' Lady Venetia Baring a telling off for dig at Princess Diana EDEN CONFIDENTIAL: The blaze of attention for Lady Venetia Baring, 25, has come at a fearful cost - earning her a ferocious dressing-down from her father, Evelyn, 4th Earl of Cromer. EDEN CONFIDENTIAL: Earl gives daughter a telling off for dig at Diana

Nationwide hikes mortgage prices even as base rate is held - in wake of a move by rival Santander Nationwide said it would put up rates on some of its home loan products just a week after announcing cuts - and in the wake of a similar recent move by rival Santander. Nationwide hikes mortgage prices as interest rates put on hold

Desperate Brits wait for Bank of England's verdict on interest rates at noon TODAY with fears cuts won't begin until the summer The Monetary Policy Committee looks almost certain to leave the headline rate unchanged at 5.25 per cent when the decision is announced at noon. Brits wait for Bank of England's verdict on interest rates at noon

ALEX BRUMMER: Why the Bank must cut interest rates today - and supercharge an economy already doing much better than the doom-mongers claim Today, Bank of England governor Andrew Bailey has a golden oppor­tunity to rebuild his ­tarnished reputation - if he is bold - bold enough to start cutting borrowing costs. The Bank must cut interest rates today to supercharge the economy

Properties are selling for less than expected as the number of home sales continues to fall The report by the trade body Propertymark is the latest insight into the state of Britain's changing housing market. Many properties are selling for less than their asking prices

Trans rights lobbying group Stonewall is exerting its grip on the public sector after annual report reveals it is rewarding schools and NHS trusts for removing 'gendered language' Trans rights lobbying group Stonewall in the past decade has attracted controversy and even been attacked by one of its founders, Simon Fanshawe, on its 'extreme notion of self-identification.' Trans rights group Stonewall is exerting its grip on the public sector

How will the latest rise in inflation impact house prices? Property insiders predicted that it is likely to be a 'bumpy ride' ahead for the property market following the latest inflation figures. How will the latest rise in inflation impact house prices?

ALEX BRUMMER: How worried should we be about inflation going back up - and what does it mean for interest rates and your shopping basket? ALEX BRUMMER: There is no cause for alarm. The small uptick in prices to 4 per cent in the year to December does not mean that the cost-of-living crisis is back. ALEX BRUMMER: Why has inflation gone up and how worried should we be?

Bank of England governor Andrew Bailey says banks must ensure customers have 'direct access' to services in person The Bank of England governor Andrew Bailey weighed into the debate over bank closures yesterday, telling lenders they must ensure customers have 'direct access' to services. Bank of England says banks must ensure customers have direct access

Bank of England boss Andrew Bailey warns that Houthi missile attacks in the Red Sea could drive inflation back UP because shipping costs are rising just as consumer prices started to recover Governor Andrew Bailey told MPs he was monitoring the situation affecting cargo vessels heading for the Suez Canal, amid a swathe of cruise missile launches by Iran-backed Houthi rebels. Bank of England boss warns Red Sea fighting pushing up shipping costs

Rishi Sunak could spend a chunk of general election campaign in SAMOA at Commonwealth summit if he sets the poll date for November A November 14 election date would mean a potentially awkward clash with the Commonwealth Heads of Government summit - CHOGM. Rishi Sunak could spend a chunk of general election campaign in SAMOA

Rishi Sunak 'gambles on Spring interest rate and tax cuts to deliver Autumn election victory for Tories' as he hopes feelgood factor will come to his rescue Rishi Sunak dramatically moved to kill speculation about a May election yesterday, saying his plan was to trigger a ballot in the 'second half of the year'. PM 'hopes interest rate and tax cuts can deliver Autumn election win'

New Year mortgage price war breaks out: High Street lenders kick off 2024 by slashing fixed rates by nearly 1% with homeowners set to save more than £100 a month Halifax, the UK's largest lender, became the first company to slash rates on its remortgage deals by up to 0.83 percentage points yesterday, just hours into the first working day of the year. New Year mortgage price war breaks out as Halifax cuts fixed rates

High street set to bounce back from economic downturn... as economists predict the Bank of England will cut interest rates next year Economists have 'cautious optimism' that 2024 will prove to be a better year financially, thanks to inflation easing and consumer confidence slowly returning. High street set to bounce back from economic downturn.

Britain had a century of net EMIGRATION before numbers started surging towards their record high of 745,000... so can Rishi REALLY get inflows under control again? Rishi Sunak's efforts to get legal migration down - which are separate to his struggle on Channel boats - come against a starkly different historical context. Britain's history of EMIGRATION before inflows surged to record high

Boost for Rishi Sunak as 'Santa rally' increases hopes of tax cuts in Spring Budget providing dose of optimism for struggling families Rising share values are a signal of optimism on markets and will bring a dose of Christmas cheer to millions of British savers - including those with pension plans - and business leaders. Boost for Sunak as 'Santa rally' increases hopes of tax cuts

BoE poised to pause interest rates in decision TODAY… but when will they start coming down? Pressure mounts to ease pain for Brits as economy stalls Threadneedle Street is widely expected to keep the base rate on hold at 5.25 per cent when the announcement comes at noon. BoE poised to pause interest rates in decision TODAY

ALEX BRUMMER: Why the Bank of England should cut interest rates TODAY ALEX BRUMMER: Governor of the Bank of England Andrew Bailey is not known for taking bold decisions. But if ever there was an opportunity to do so, it is now. ALEX BRUMMER: Why the Bank of England should cut interest rates TODAY

Hopes are raised for an interest rate cut next year as figures show pay growth has slowed sharply Average weekly earnings rose by 7.3 per cent in the three months to October compared with the same period last year, according to the Office for National Statistics. Hopes are raised for an interest rate cut next year

Jeremy Hunt could have £20 billion worth of extra headroom to cut taxes at next year's Budget, analysis suggests Jeremy Hunt could have more than £20billion extra headroom for tax cuts at next year's Budget as borrowing costs fall and wage growth boosts Treasury coffers. Jeremy Hunt could have £20bn of extra headroom to cut taxes

Bank of England governor says he is just being a 'realist' after backlash at his 'ultra-pessimistic' view about the UK's economic prospects Andrew Bailey was heavily criticised for comments earlier this week where he warned the economic outlook was among the worst he had ever seen. Bank of England chief says he is a 'realist' after backlash at gloom

UK faces being the second slowest growing economy in the G7 next year but will dodge recession, OECD says The OECD's latest estimates have upgraded Britain's performance for this year, from the 0.3 per cent it anticipated in September to 0.5 per cent. UK 'second slowest growing economy in the G7 next year', says OECD

DAILY MAIL COMMENT: A return to the gospel of low-tax Toryism DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Rishi Sunak has fulfilled his pledged to halve inflation, a year after the Bank of England told us we were about to enter a two-year recession DAILY MAIL COMMENT: A return to the gospel of low-tax Toryism

Bank of England governor Andrew Bailey warns it is 'too soon to declare victory' in the war against inflation In his first comments since figures last week showed inflation had plunged to 4.6 per cent, Andrew Bailey said there was still 'a long way to go' before it reached the Bank's 2 per cent target. Bank of England governor warns it is 'too soon to declare victory'

TOM UTLEY: If, like me, you're going mad waiting for an online delivery that never turns up, Mrs U has the answer Like so many of us these days, I lay myself open to the charge of hypocrisy when I wail and gnash my few remaining teeth over the slow death of the High Street. TOM UTLEY: If you're mad waiting for a delivery, Mrs U has answers

High taxes battering economy - but Jeremy Hunt STILL resists cuts to prevent the economy 'flatlining' Output stagnated between July and September, thanks to a toxic combination of high borrowing costs and tariffs, and the cost of living crisis squeezing household budgets. High taxes battering economy but Hunt STILL resists cuts

Australia just made a huge decision that sets it apart from other Western countries - and you're paying the price In a major move that distinguishes Australia from its Western counterparts, the nation has made a monumental decision that comes at a substantial cost. Australia makes huge decision that sets it apart from other countries

BoE chief Andrew Bailey warns interest rates will stay high for an 'extended period'... despite hopes falling inflation could mean cuts starting by May Bank of England governor Andrew Bailey said he is 'optimistic' that inflation - currently more than triple the 2 per cent target - will come down to normal levels. BoE chief warns interest rates will stay high for 'extended period'

DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Now let's turbocharge growth with tax cuts DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Cast your mind back exactly a year. Amid the fallout from the pandemic and the war in Ukraine, the BofE was warning that Britain faced its longest recession on record. DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Now let's turbocharge growth with tax cuts

ALEX BRUMMER: Take the Bank of England's gloomy forecast for 2024 with a pinch of salt ALEX BRUMMER: The good news is that one of Rishi Sunak's five pledges - to halve inflation by the end of the year and ease the cost of living crisis - should now be achieved. ALEX BRUMMER: Take Bank's gloomy 2024 forecast with a pinch of salt

Rishi Sunak's target to halve inflation has already been met, Bank of England says - but it warns the UK's growth is grinding to a halt The Bank believes inflation fell to 4.8 per cent last month - which if confirmed would mean Mr Sunak's target of halving it this year is met with two months to spare. Sunak's target to halve inflation has already been met, says Bank

Hopes BoE will spare Brits fresh mortgage pain by keeping interest rates on hold at 5.25% in decision TODAY... as the economy stutters Threadneedle Street could keep the base rate at 5.25 per cent when the latest decision is announced at noon. Hopes BoE will spare Brits mortgage pain by holding interest rates

High street bank profits hit as savers shift their hard-earned cash to higher interest rate savings accounts High street bank profits have been hit as Britons have moved millions from their current accounts to new or existing savings pots to make the most of better returns. Bank profits hit as savers shift their cash to higher rate accounts

Mortgage guarantee scheme 'set to be extended for another year' in Chancellor's Autumn Statement Chancellor Jeremy Hunt is expected to announce that the arrangement will be kept in place at the Autumn Statement next month. Mortgage guarantee scheme 'set to be extended for another year'

British households feel good about their finances (unlike the rest of Europe) More than a third of Brits think their finances will improve over the next year, which is more than those in France, Italy and recession-hit Germany. UK households only Europe consumers positive about their budgets

Home values dip again, but it's not all gloom as the value of a typical house remains above the level seen when the Bank of England began to raise interest rates in December 2021 Prices fell by 0.4 per cent in September and are now around £14,000 below their peak in August last year, figures from the nation's largest mortgage lender show. An average home is now £278,601. House prices dip again but stay above level seen in December 2021

Stealth taxes will cost hardworking Brits £40BILLION a year by 2028 - £10bn more than previous estimates Taxes will raise £40billion a year from personal incomes by 2028 in a move likely to intensify calls for Chancellor Jeremy Hunt to cut taxes ahead of a potential general election Stealth taxes will cost hardworking Brits £40BILLION a year by 2028