Arabella Chi and Adam Maxted were sensationally dumped from the Love Island villa just a day before the final in a shocking twist on Sunday night.

The dumped All Stars returned to the villa ahead of the grand final to give their judgements on the remaining Islanders on the ITV2 show.

The former contestants arrived dressed in their bikini and swimming trunks to offer their opinion on the remaining couples.

The fate was left in the hands of the ex-Islanders as they individually decided which couple they would like to dump from the villa.

Kicking off the voting, Mitchell Taylor voted to send home Georgia Harrison and Anton Danyluk, claiming they are 'game players and are going for the prize money.'

Arabella Chi and Adam Maxted were sensationally dumped from the Love Island villa just a day before the final in a shocking twist on Sunday night

The dumped All Stars returned to the villa ahead of the grand final to give their judgements on the remaining Islanders on the ITV2 show

The former contestants arrived dressed in their bikini and swimming trunks to offer their opinion on the remaining couples

Meanwhile, Demi Jones revealed she wanted to send home Arabella and Adam because she felt others were 'more deserving' of their place.

Chris also voted for Georgia H and Anton, while Kaz Kamwi agreed and sadi that she had been left 'questioning their connection'.

Dropping a bombshell in the Molly and Callum saga, Luis Morrison revealed he thought that Molly Smith and Tom Clare's connection was 'one-sided' as he voted to send them packing.

Tom, who has already been rattled by allegations that there is still a connection between his partner Molly and her ex-boyfriend Callum, asked Luis what he meant.

Luis confirmed that he believes there is still something between them after watching the series play out on TV after leaving the villa.

Liberty Poole and Hannah Louise also voted for Arabella and Adam, with Hannah saying: 'There are strong relationships in here and she is a friend of mine but i have to pick someone.'

Tyler Cruickshank and Casey O'Gorman also voted for Georgia H and Anton.

Jake Cornish admitted that he thought Georgia Steel and Toby Aromolaran were the weakest couple, as he gave them their only vote.

Liberty Poole (pictured) and Hannah Louise also voted for Arabella and Adam

Georgia Harrison and Anton Danyluk narrowly avoided the dumping as they received five votes

The couple received the most votes and were sent home

The fate was left in the hands of the ex-Islanders as they individually decided which couple they would like to dump from the villa

Finally, Joanna Chimonides, Eve Gale and Joe Garrett all voted for Arabella and Adam, ultimately sending them home.

While the girls were having their morning debrief, they quickly notice the former islanders making their way back into the villa.

Molly shouted: 'Oh my God, my heart is pounding.'

Georgia H gets a text and reads: 'Islanders, please gather around the fire pit immediately.'

She then says: 'Guys, I think whatever's about to happen is going to be savage.'

During the tense scene, Tom fumed after Luis voted to dump him and Molly.

His reason was that she has 'another connection in the villa' and their relationship was 'one-sided' - amid the public backing of Molly and Callum getting back together.

But after Molly insisted she did want to be with Tom, while Callum told how he was enjoying moving on with Jess Gale.

When Luis made his choice Tom was visibly angry as he retorted to him: 'Why though!'

Mitchell Taylor voted to send home Georgia Harrison and Anton Danyluk , claiming they are 'game players and are going for the prize money

Finally, Joanna Chimonides, Eve Gale and Joe Garrett (pictured) all voted for Arabella and Adam, ultimately sending them home

During the tense scene, Tom fumed after Luis voted to dump him and Molly

Luis then defensively replied: 'It's just what I'm seeing on TV.'

It comes after on Friday night's show the girls had phone calls from home where lots of their pals suggested Callum and Molly still had feelings for each other.

On Friday fans were left devastated as Molly and Callum confirmed they would never rekindle their romance.

Viewers had hoped the couple would get back together having entered the villa last month after splitting following a three-and-a-half year relationship in September last year.

The couple appeared to have found closure during their time living together in South Africa and, despite Molly being coupled-up with Tom Clare and Callum being paired-up with Jess Gale, fans of the show had hoped Molly and Callum would realise see a future for themselves together.

During a chat about the current status of their relationship, Callum told Molly: 'If I could take anything from this, it's that we've actually got a friendship now because on the outside we didn't have that.'

He added: 'I'm happy that you've found Tom. He makes you happy.'

After Molly told him she was happy he'd found Jess, he said: 'I'm enjoying it. We would never have come to this on the outside. I feel like I'm i a good place.'

The pair they shook hands at the end of their conversation and refused to make eye contact with each other as they joked people may read into it.

On Friday fans were left devastated as Molly Smith and Callum Jones confirmed they would never rekindle their romance

Viewers had hoped the couple would get back together having entered the villa last month after splitting following a three-and-a-half year relationship in September last year

Fans of the show took to social media to express their sadness at the prospect of Molly and Callum not getting back together.

One person wrote on Twitter: 'I’m still convinced Molly and Callum are going to get back together.. I’m rooting for it till the very end.'

Someone else wrote: 'Molly and Callum shaking hands, end of an era.'

While someone else shared: 'If molly and Callum aren’t back together by the end of the series just cancel love island altogether.'

'I’m never going to believe Molly and Callum are officially over until one of them gets married,' wrote another viewer.

While someone else posted: 'Can Maya Jama please just run in, throw Molly a note telling her everything Callum has done to make her happy, and then run back out.'

Fans of the show took to social media to express their sadness at the prospect of Molly and Callum not getting back together

Someone else commented: 'I’m just gonna stay in delulu land that molly and Callum will get back together, I like it here.'

And someone else shared: 'Anyone else notice that Callum and molly said the exact same thing to Jess and Tom “there’s no substance to it whatsoever”.'

Someone else wrote: 'Why do Callum and Molly talk exactly the same man there is a substance to it y’all are soul mates.'

While another person exclaimed: 'CALLUM AND MOLLY BOTH USING THE WORD “substance”… THEY ARE MEANT TO BE YOU WAIT AND SEE.'

Someone else wrote: 'Molly and Callum rehearsed this. They used the same phrases when talking to their partners about how there no “substance” etc. They are gonna get back together on the outside.'

Meanwhile, Molly claimed Callum's family would 'absolutely love' Jess Gale, during Thursday's episode.