Four people struck by lightening in Sydney storms

A lightning strike during a savage storm tore a hole in the main runway at Sydney Airport, causing lengthy delays.

The main runway was closed for 20 minutes while the hole was repaired by airfield crew.

Aircraft passengers were told to expect delays of up to 60 minutes for departures and 20 minutes for arrivals, reported 9News.

'Unfortunately due to storm activity, there have been some flight delays, cancellations and diversions,' an airport spokesperson wrote on X/Twitter.

Passengers are advised to check the status of their flight with their airline.

The wild weather has also sparked widespread chaos on the train network, including damaging equipment at Milsons Point.

The T1 North Shore Line was shut down as a result with no trains running between North Sydney and Gordon.

The T9 Northern will have significant delays during the evening as a result, which will also impact the T2 Inner West and T3 Bankstown Lines due to train flow.

The delays caused heavily congested platforms at Wynyard, Town Hall and Central on Monday night.

Sydney was lashed with heavy rain on Monday as a severe thunderstorm warning was issued

The wild weather reportedly damaged a runway at Sydney Airport, causing lengthy delays (pictured)

The deluge plunged the rail network in chaos just hours before the peak evening rush

It comes after four people were struck by lightning near the Sydney Opera House as wild storms triggered a mass blackout, plunged Sydney's rail network into chaos and even delayed Taylor Swift's private jet.

Two men and two women were rushed to hospital after being injured by lightning strikes while under a tree in the Botanic Gardens at about 12.45pm.

A man in his late teens and a woman in her 20s have been taken to the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital.

A man and woman aged in their 30s have been taken to St Vincent's Hospital.

The city was hit with around 75,000 lightning strikes in three hours.

A severe thunderstorm warning was issued across the Greater Sydney region, as many suburban areas face possible flash flooding.

The wild weather plunged the rail network into chaos with many commuters advised to allow for extra travel time or to find alternative transport

Hundreds were left stranded after trains stopped running from North Sydney to the city, while buses heading to the city were not stopping at North Sydney.

Other train lines are advising customers that stops and platforms may change at short notice due to the severe weather conditions.

A spokesperson for Transport for NSW said replacement buses had been ordered but had not yet arrived.

Earlier, the storm delayed Taylor Swift's private plane by up to 30 minutes as the popstar flew from Melbourne to Sydney.

Fans were seen sheltering under umbrellas as they arrive at Sydney Airport to welcome Taylor Swift

Swift's jet was delayed by half an hour as the popstar arrived in Sydney on Monday (pictured: eager fans wait to snatch a glimpse of her at Sydney airport)

The hitmaker was spotted boarding her private jet in Melbourne earlier in the day wearing a Kansas City Chiefs Super Bowl LVIII Champs baseball cap in tribute to her boyfriend Travis Kelce (pictured)

Swift and her team were seen departing Melbourne at about midday on Monday ahead of her next four-day run of shows in her Eras Tour in the Harbour City. The mega-star landed safely at 1.25pm.

After landing, she is expected to be taken to a penthouse at Crown in Barangaroo.

The pop superstar, 34, will perform four shows in Sydney from Friday before she heads off to Singapore.

The Shake It Off hitmaker wore a dark mini skirt paired with a red T-shirt that revealed a glimpse of midriff for her flight.

She paid tribute to her boyfriend Travis Kelce by wearing a Kansas City Chiefs Super Bowl LVIII Champs baseball cap after his team's big win earlier this month.

More than 13,000 homes and businesses in Sydney's northern suburbs lost power on Monday

A Coles in Balgowlah is seen in total darkness after a major storm hit the city on Monday

Swift was accompanied by her entourage as she climbed the stairs of her Bombardier Global 6000 aircraft, which boasts a double bed and fine dining cabin.

More than 13,000 homes in the city's northern beaches lost power just before 1pm on Monday as heavy rain, strong winds and lightning lashed the city.

Residents in Fairlight, Manly, Balgowlah, Balgowlah Heights, Seaforth, Manly Vale, Killarney Heights and Mosman were plunged into darkness are all impacted.

Ausgrid estimated power would be returned to homes and businesses by 3pm.

Meanwhile, the Bureau of Meteorology issued a severe thunderstorm warning for heavy rainfall, damaging winds and large hailstones for much of NSW.

The heaviest downpours were recorded in Kings Langley, in Sydney’s north-west, which had 48mm of rain in an hour.