Visit one of these countries if the gesture is one that taints your holiday

Tipping can be an etiquette minefield while travelling abroad

Tipping can be an etiquette minefield

Tipping is a sign of decency, an indication you appreciate the effort your server, taxi driver, or porter has put into looking after you.

It can, however, be an etiquette minefield while travelling abroad, not to mention a costly gesture.

For those who hate the mental gymnastics that come with adding 15 per cent onto a bill at the end of a wine-soaked meal or tire of working out when and where to tip, you might consider a getaway to one of these countries.

That's because they're nations where it's considered poor form to leave a tip - and in some, tipping is downright insulting.

Australia

You can leave a little something when you pick up your flat white without causing offence in Australia. However, no one will be upset if you don't. Pictured is a barista making coffee in Perth

Down under, tipping isn't expected, though neither is it sniffed at. In bigger cities a 10 per cent service charge is often included in the bill, and you won't raise any eyebrows leaving a tip when you order a flat white.

Switzerland

It's not customary to tip in Switzerland, where service charges are included in prices in most places under federal law. That said, if you're pleased with your service a gratuity would be welcome.

It's not customary to tip in Switzerland, where service charges are included in prices in most places under federal law. Pictured is the famously cosmopolitan Swiss city of Geneva

But don't fret about ensuring the waiters are adequately compensated: the country has one of the highest minimum wages in the world.

Argentina

A curious one. Under a 2004 labour law it is illegal to tip people working in hotels or restaurants. That doesn't mean it doesn't happen, nor that it isn't welcome.

The law isn't regularly enforced, though - tipping accounts for approximately 40 per cent of the average Argentine waiter's income, so it's a kindness to leave a little something.

Belgium

Wages are handsome in Belgium, so tipping isn't expected. You won't be chased out of the restaurant for offering 10 per cent, however.

French Polynesia

No one expects a tip in French Polynesia - indeed, if you're bowled over by great service and offer a gratuity, the recipient may decline it. Some restaurants attach notes to a bill to advise whether or not tips are welcome, to avoid tripping clientele up.

Singapore

Tipping is somewhat controversial in Singapore. A small offering won't cause offence when dining or taking a taxi. But it's officially discouraged: indeed, the government website states 'tipping is not a way of life' on the island.

COUNTRIES WHERE TIPPING IS AN INSULT

Japan

It's a slap in the face to offer a tip in Japan, where the cultural norm is to take great pride in your work. Employees hold themselves to a very high standard when supplying a service: no gratuity is needed to be feel appreciated.

Indeed, offering a tip suggests you don't think their employer recognises their value, so doesn't pay them enough.

China

Leaving a tip in China is all but forbidden. Pictured - a waiter in Shanghai

Here, it's all but forbidden. Leaving a gratuity used to be prohibited in China - for decades, leaving a tip was considered a bribe. To this day, in much of the country it's considered a personal affront to restaurant staff or hoteliers if you leave them a gratuity.

The exception are tour guides or tour bus drivers - you can hand them some cash for their troubles without causing offence.

South Korea

Like Japan and China, tipping is considered outright rude in South Korea. An attempt to leave a gratuity may well be turned down.