Two decades of turmoil over the renovation of Lord's has reached another low point with the shambolic delivery of the MCC report outlining the two stark options facing its 18,000 members.

MCC had wanted to put all the information sent to members in the public domain in an orchestrated way. It boiled down to either accepting a £150million offer from Rifkind Associates for a residential development at the Nursery End or the club itself paying for a cricket-only revamp.

But acrimony between MCC and Rifkind led to RA architect David Morley's design for the 97 flats being leaked by one newspaper BEFORE the agreed embargo — causing understandable meltdown at Lord's.

Plans to renovate Lord's caused fury after the news was leaked before an embargo

That will not worry RA, who had the benefit of a shameless advertorial in a national newspaper before members saw the MCC findings. RA had feared — correctly as it turns out — that the MCC document would be weighted towards rejecting the property play.

That is also likely to be the verdict of the main MCC Committee, who will make their recommendation before the autumn members vote after evaluating feedback.

The MCC document highlights three major problems with the Morley Plan. There are strong doubts as to how the Nursery Ground can remain the same size if two 10-storey buildings are built, one on each side within the Lord's estate.

There is also a security issue caused by those occupying the two and three bedroom flats and the lack of any heritage study at the home of cricket by the Morley team.

There are doubts as to how the Nursery Ground (pictured) can remain the same size if two 10-storey buildings are built

The review says: 'Building residential accommodation blocks within the boundaries of the estate increases Lord's vulnerability to security breaches according to Metropolitan Police counter-terrorism advice.'

The Morley camp say they did make a heritage study that did not require going inside Lord's.

They also maintain that the Nursery Ground will remain the same size as their renovations do not take up as much concourse space as the MCC's own plan.

In addition, there will be no entrance from the flats to the cricket ground while other buildings overlooking Lord's pose more danger.

Only Carolyn Radford, who became engaged to John Radford — wealthy owner of League Two Mansfield — a fortnight after being appointed the club's chief executive, could post a tweet from the Football League summer meeting hashtagged 'sexiestceo'.

Carolyn Radford, Mansfield's chief executive, attended the Football League summer meeting

She posted a tweet from the Football League summer meeting hashtagged 'sexiestceo'

Derby owner Mel Morris, who has been imploring the Football League to end their Sky TV rights deal and go to market offering Premier League-style packages, looks like he will get his way.

The FL announced on Thursday they would not take up the option of a further season with Sky in 2019-20, but will sell their rights this month in a more savvy packages format with an increase in regular Tuesday night games.

Derby County owner Mel Morris has implored the Football League to end their Sky TV deal

The Premier League, under pressure from industry watchdog Ofcom, have agreed a minimum 190 matches will be broadcast live from the start of the 2019-20 season — up from the current 168.

SMITHS SEEK STAR KIDS

Football agent brothers Phil and Jon Smith, who made their agency, First Artists, one of the big names in the business, are joining forces with Adam Wheatley, Kevin Pietersen's agent, to form a new football venture. Christened the Players Republic, it will concentrate on identifying and contracting top young talent. The co-founders hope to raise £538,000 of equity investment.

The giant West Ham United lettering on the roof of the London Stadium is in the process of being taken down to comply with the promise of a clean venue for the athletics World Championships.

It is understood there had been some debate within the London Legacy Development Corporation as to whether this was really necessary because of the expense involved.