There are many reasons not to look forward to my first twirl in a glider. For starters, the country is being buffeted constantly by storm after storm.

I am not tip-top with heights — and also prone to airsickness.

But, perhaps most worrying, is the fact that my pilot and instructor — the person with my life in her hands — is a schoolgirl called Amelia Richardson, who turned 17 just a few weeks ago.

Yes, 17 years old. She's a teenager, for goodness' sake, still studying for her A-levels. She can't drive a car. Or drink. Or go to a nightclub. Or vote.

So it's a very good thing that she's not quite as hopeless as I was at that age. Because Amelia, who has been flying solo since she was 14, is also the UK's youngest gliding instructor, qualified to guide beginners through their first flights.

Amelia Richardson Schoolgirl, 16, (right) becomes UK's youngest glider instructor, pictured with Jane Fryer

Polite, competent, driven, kind, confident, funny and just sufficiently teenagery not to feel weird

'I should be in school in a study period right now,' she says, looking very dashing in her blue reflecting Aviator sunnies, combats and heavy boots.

And with that, she launches into a brisk, pre-flight briefing about headsets and safety belts and what to do when I feel queasy. And then we march out onto Bicester Airfield, and up to the world's smallest aircraft.

Which, it turns out, is not a straightforward glider. No, today, because of the weather — too cold, too windy to be in an unheated glider — we are in a motor glider. A red and white teeny tot called Rosie, with long wings and a tail like a glider, very light, but with an engine to get us airborne, that we can switch off whenever we fancy and just glide.

Gosh, so she can fly proper planes, too?

'Of course! I'm qualified to fly everything from a two-seater to a single-seater K8, which feels as light as a crisp packet,' she says.

'And I've flown about 17 different types of aircraft. I love flying. Just the joy of doing it and showing people what it's all about. I can't believe I can do this.'

Neither can I.

It all started for Amelia when she was four years old and on a day trip with her family from Newquay to the Scilly Isles.

Finally, after 20 minutes or so, we swoop around — over tiny sheep, swimming pools, topiarised hedges and Cotswold stone villages

It comes as a relief to hear she is also messy, very bad in the morning and adores her phone

'We flew over in a lovely Twin Otter with two female pilots, and I could see straight into the cockpit. I was transfixed. That was it! That was the moment. I knew from then that I just wanted to fly.'

Which is all very well, but flying is extortionately expensive. And not really for a four-year-old.

But eventually, on her 13th birthday — after a bit of research and discovering that gliding is far cheaper than flying powered planes — her parents relented and bought her a £15 gliding lesson.

Within 18 months, she was flying solo, doing acrobatics and generally living it up in the sky. Since then, she has won prizes, scholarships and recognition throughout the gliding community and wider aviation world. But, right now, we have more pressing matters at hand. Because we are buckled up in the minuscule cockpit — side by side, headphones on, canopy down, a wintry sun boiling us alive — as Amelia runs through a plastic laminated pre-flight check list, fiddles with knobs, chats like a pro to air traffic control as, suddenly, the propeller starts throbbing.

I am nervous, who wouldn't be, and she can tell.

So, to distract me, she chats and chirps on cheerily.

About how gliders ride thermals — 'the heat rising from the ground convects to form clouds and that's what keeps her up'.

How the higher you go, the colder it gets. 'I once went to 10,000 feet. It was freezing! You have to wear a huge, padded suit.'

And how, in a classic glider, there are two ways to get airborne. The gentler way by aero tow — towed up by another plane and then released when airborne. Or, for the adrenaline junkies, by winch. Which is a sort of glorified catapult powered by a V8 engine, which pings the glider up into the air at a 45-degree angle at high speed.

And with that, and after very little bumping and lurching, we're up. 'I never get tired of it. I love it. It's a cool way to see the world,' she says as she points out the dinky domes of the RAF listening base, endless teeny villages, Oxford to our left and miles upon miles of floods.

So far, Amelia has clocked up more than 200 flying hours. She's taken up children, school friends, her younger sister, her dad. Not yet her mum. 'She's scared of heights, bless her. So she's not been up, but she says she will.' Amelia, meanwhile, is obsessed.

When she's asleep she dreams of gliding — 'all the time!'

And when she's on the ground, it's all she thinks of.

Particularly in school, where she hates being spatchcocked to her desk, one ear permanently cocked for noise in the heavens above. Because, to an aficionado, aircraft make very distinctive noises, like cars.

'Occasionally, they fly over my school,' she says. 'So I might be sitting in geography and I'd be able to recognise Rosie if she came over!' Then the minute the bell goes, she's out, off on the bus to spend every spare moment at the airfield.

When it's warmer, she brings her tent and camps here for the whole weekend. During the school holidays, she might stay a week at a time. All alternated with a job as a lifeguard at a local pool, to help pay for it all.

Because, amazingly, gliding really is weirdly affordable — about £7 a launch and between 30 and 50p a minute, depending on which glider you fly.

'I am not tip-top with heights — and also prone to airsickness'

So still barely £15 for a ten-minute flight.

Which means that most of her flying is self-funded, subsidised by birthday and Christmas money, and the odd scholarship.

Now she's qualified to teach. Not to teach take-off and landing quite yet, but she can handle most of the bits in between — handing over the controls, introducing all the dials and knobs to novices.

And, presumably, directing her charges to the very complicated flight manuals and the endless exams and tests she has sat over recent years.

'Some people look a bit surprised when they turn up and see how young their instructor is,' she says. 'But they soon seem to get used to it.'

I'm not surprised. Indeed, as we switch off the engine, embrace the quiet that's occasionally interrupted by my umms and ahhs at the red kites swirling below, I realise I've totally forgotten she was born in 2007.

It must be odd to be so young, but to have found your calling.

Next on her list is the RAF, or the Navy. Or, failing that, commercial — she is already studying for her private pilot's licence. 'I want to fly everything,' she says with the pioneering spirit of her namesake Amelia Earhart — the first woman to fly solo across the Atlantic.

'Rotary, fast jets, multi engines, big airlines. As long as I'm flying or teaching people to fly, I'll be happy. Because flying helps people. It changes you.' She is a truly exceptional girl. Not just because she can fly planes and perform acrobatics. But because she is a total joy to spend time with.

Polite, competent, driven, kind, confident, funny and just sufficiently teenagery not to feel weird. (It comes as a relief to hear she is also messy, very bad in the morning and adores her phone).

Finally, after 20 minutes or so, we swoop around — over tiny sheep, swimming pools, topiarised hedges and Cotswold stone villages — to approach the landing strip. Where, in one sweeping movement, we touch down.

The landing is so gentle, I exclaim out loud in shock.

'I would hope so, after all the practice I've done!' she replies, rather crisply. Before adding: 'It's a lovely day. Shall we pop back up?'

And of course, we do. Because, as Amelia says, what could be better for the soul than arcing through the sky on a bright sunny afternoon.