Jack Grealish has had no luck... he'll now be sweating on his Euros place -

Sheffield United suffered their third consecutive 5-0 defeat at home on Sunday, as they were thumped by a rampant Brighton side.

There was drama early on as Mason Holgate was shown a straight card by referee Stuart Atwell after he clattered into Brighton's Kaoru Mitoma.

With a man advantage, Brighton would go on to put five goals past Chris Wilder's side, with Facundo Buonanotte and Danny Welbeck both scoring before half-time, before Jack Robinson would concede an own goal in the 75th minute.

Simon Adingra, fresh from winning the Africa Cup of Nations with Ivory Coast, would come on to score a brace of goals late on to wrap up the win and send the Seagulls seventh in the table.

Mail Sport's Adam Patel was at Bramall Lane on Sunday and has all the things you might have missed from Brighton's victory against Sheffield United.

It's not the first time that Mason Holgate has been sent off for a reckless challenge. Holgate is the only player to get a red card in each of the last three Premier League seasons

On Sky Sports, Jamie Redknapp said that his wild challenge on Kaoru Mitoma was one of the worst tackles he’d seen in years and though some fans inexcusably clapped Holgate off

Your browser does not support iframes.

Holgate's third red card in consecutive seasons

It's not the first time that Mason Holgate has been sent off for a reckless challenge. Holgate is the only player to get a red card in each of the last three Premier League seasons.

In 2021, he was given a red card for Everton after a similar high challenge on Pierre-Emile Hojbjerg of Tottenham and last season, he was given two yellows against Crystal Palace.

On Sky Sports' live coverage of the match, Jamie Redknapp said that his wild challenge on Kaoru Mitoma was one of the worst tackles he’d seen in years and though some fans inexcusably clapped Holgate off, one supporter in front of the press box got out of his seat to make his feelings clear towards the 27-year-old.

In 2021, he was given a red card for Everton after a similar high challenge on Pierre-Emile Hojbjerg of Tottenham and last season, he was given two yellows against Crystal Palace

You have to go back to July 2020 for the last time that Sheffield United won two Premier League games in a row

Sheffield United are struggling for consistency

You have to go back to July 2020 for the last time that Sheffield United won two Premier League games in a row and after winning at Luton last week, this was a chance to go back-to-back.

But any genuine hope of ending that run lasted just 13 minutes with the quickest sending off for the season meaning the Blades gameplan had to go out of the window. Over their last two seasons in the Premier League (including 2020-21), they’ve won just 10 of their 63 games.

Little wonder that there were swathes of empty seats inside Bramall Lane for this clash, with United now conceding five goals for the third home game in a row. A tough watch, to say the least. Never mind with a man less.

Chris Wilder's side have now conceded five goals in each of their three previous home matches

Simon Adingra was straight back in the Brighton starting eleven after winning the Africa Cup of Nations with Ivory Coast

Adingra back with a brace

Simon Adingra was straight back in the Brighton starting eleven after winning the Africa Cup of Nations with Ivory Coast.

The 22-year-old was man-of-the-match in the final in Abidjan against Nigeria last week with two assists and after receiving a guard of honour at the Amex Stadium earlier in the week, the winger enjoyed a field day here, capping off his afternoon in Yorkshire with two late goals.

Trains cause chaos for fans once again

Yet again, the British rail network and TV scheduling let down football fans with hundreds of Brighton fans forced to miss their trains to Sheffield from London St Pancras, despite arriving on time.

With an unusual queuing system in place due to reduced services, East Midlands Railway closed the doors to the 9:30am service well before departure and for those trying to get on the 10.30am service, the train was full and locked off by 9:45am.

Ticket holders were then advised to get on the next train, which arrived into Sheffield at 2.30pm. By that time, Brighton were two goals up.

Yet again, the British rail network and TV scheduling let down football fans with hundreds of Brighton fans forced to miss their trains to Sheffield from London St Pancras

The Blades have now conceded 65 goals in the Premier League this season - the most ever by a side in their first 25 matches

Sheffield United need more than just 'togetherness'

In his programme notes, Chris Wilder spoke about fight and the non-negotiables he wanted from his side. And by all accounts, it is a squad that gets along well together, ‘Recently I drove up Ecclesall Road and went into Costa Coffee and there were about 10 or 11 boys in the corner having a coffee together,’ said Wilder.

‘For me that’s great. If they’re together as a group off the pitch, you’ve got more chance of them being together on the pitch as well,’ Wilder added.

In fairness, they fought well after the red card but they never really stood a chance against a quality Brighton outfit, who had 80 per cent of possession.

The Blades have now conceded 65 goals in the Premier League this season - the most ever by a side in their first 25 matches and they will need a lot more than togetherness off the pitch, if they are to even stand a chance of pulling off the mother of all escapes. Right now, relegation looks inevitable.