England and Manchester United goalkeeper Mary Earps has graced the front cover of a leading women's lifestyle magazine in a stunning photoshoot showing her relaxed side.

Earps, 30, enjoyed a stellar 2023 as she was one of the stars of England's World Cup campaign, where they reached the final before losing to Spain, and was crowned BBC Sports Personality of the Year in December. She also won the best women's goalkeeper prize at the FIFA Best Awards.

She is known for her leadership on the field and fierce attitude but she let her hair down in a recent photoshoot for Women's Health UK.

Earps is seen posing in a green Umbro football shirt, which she lifted up to reveal part of her torso, a green dress, a red dress and a chic leather jacket.

The Lioness, the Golden Glove Winner at the World Cup in Australia and New Zealand, is also set to open up in a major interview with the magazine.

England and Man United star Mary Earps has graced the latest front cover of Women's Health

Earps struck a pose as she featured in a stunning photoshoot showing her relaxed side

The Manchester United goalkeeper was seen posing in a green Umbro football shirt, which she lifted up to reveal part of her torso

The Golden Glove Winner at the World Cup is set to open up in an interview with the magazine

Your browser does not support iframes.

It comes after Earps shared snaps of a recent holiday to Barbados last month, posting images showing herself lounging in a hammock, enjoying a well-earned glass of bubbly and larking about in a phone booth.

Earps won hearts across the nation with her World Cup exploits and an impressive campaign off-pitch to have her shirt sold in stores to fans and celebrated her SPOTY gong in style in the Carribean.

'Barbados, you were a dream. A much needed refresh and the most perfect way to see out 2023 and begin 2024,' she wrote on Instagram.

During the World Cup, Earps was at the centre of a fierce debate that revolved around the availability of her England goalkeeper top.

It is understood Nike originally decided against selling Earps' shirt for commercial reasons but a U-turn was made in August when they announced they would retail limited quantities.

Reflecting on the incident to Women's Health, Earps said: 'It was sad on a personal note that my friends and family couldn't buy my shirt, but it wasn't about me.

'It was more about, I felt, the message being sent to young kids especially, but [also] to a whole demographic of people who have a huge passion and interest in goalkeeping. I felt like they were being shunned.'

She is known for her leadership on the field and fierce attitude but she let her hair down in a recent photoshoot for Women's Health

Earps won hearts across the nation with her World Cup exploits and an impressive campaign off-pitch to have her shirt sold in stores to fans

She was also named the Best women's goalkeeper by FIFA at last month's awards ceremony

She continued: 'Ultimately, the end goal was to get the shirts on sale, and I feel we've achieved that.

'[Hopefully] it encourages kids to keep going, pursuing their dreams and the position that they want to play…

'I've always been a big believer in trying to leave the game in a better place and trying to leave that legacy.

'Of course, you always want to do that in the way you play football…But the shirt – I mean, I don't think I'll forget it, and I hope no one else does.'

The full interview with Mary Earps can be read in the March issue of Women’s Health UK, on sale now.