Jaafar Jackson was spotted on the set of his new Michael Jackson biopic simply entitled Michael, alongside his on-screen mother, Nia Long.

The 27-year-old actor - the real-life nephew of the late King of Pop (who passed away in 2009 at 50 years of age) - was spotted on the Los Angeles set in what appeared to be a funeral scene.

Jaafar - whose 'uncanny' resemblence to his uncle impressed director Antoine Fuqua enough to give him the role - was spotted in a white dress shirt and a black tie.

He was also wearing high-water black pants with white socks and black shoes to complete his look.

Jackson's co-star Nia Long was clad in a dark blue pantsuit with a matching dark blue purse and a light blue cravat.

Jaafar Jackson was spotted on the set of his new Michael Jackson biopic simply entitled Michael, alongside his on-screen mother, Nia Long

The 27-year-old actor - the real-life nephew of the late King of Pop (who passed away in 2009 at 50 years of age) - was spotted on the Los Angeles set in what appeared to be a funeral scene

Jaafar - whose 'uncanny' resemblence to his uncle impressed director Antoine Fuqua enough to give him the role - was spotted in a white dress shirt and a black tie

The scene was filmed at a home, with a black Cadillac showcased on the set, which very well may be a Cadillac hearse.

While it hasn't been confirmed if it is a funeral scene, it's worth noting that Jackson's grandfather - Samuel Jackson - passed away in Phoenix at 100 years of age in 1993.

Jafaar Jackson was seen in previously-released photos re-creating the King of Pop's Dangerous tour, which spanned from 1992-1993, so it's possible this could be Samuel Jackson's funeral scene.

Jaafar will play the adult Michael Jackson, with Juliano Valdi playing the younger MJ who shot to fame as a child in the Jackson 5.

The cast also includes Oscar-nominated actor Colman Domingo as the singer's father Joe Jackson, and Miles Teller as John Branca, who served Michael's manager after he fired his father.

Jaafar makes his acting debut in the film, though his resemblance to his nephew - along with his singing and dancing skills - solidified the role.

'It's uncanny how much he's like Michael,' the filmmaker gushed to Entertainment Weekly, adding, 'Sounds like him, dances like him, sings.'

'It's really uncanny. Graham King, who is a fantastic producer, found him, and introduced him to me, and I was blown away,' the director admitted.

Jaafar is no stranger to the entertainment, and has been both singing and dancing since he was 12-years-old.

The scene was filmed at a home, with a black Cadillac showcased on the set, which very well may be a Cadillac hearse

While it hasn't been confirmed if it is a funeral scene, it's worth noting that Jackson's grandfather - Samuel Jackson - passed away in Phoenix at 100 years of age in 1993

Jaafar Jackson was seen in previously-released photos re-creating the King of Pop's Dangerous tour, which spanned from 1992-1993, so it's possible this could be Samuel Jackson's funeral scene

Jaafar will play the adult Michael Jackson, with Juliano Valdi playing the younger MJ who shot to fame as a child in the Jackson 5

The cast also includes Oscar-nominated actor Colman Domingo as the singer's father Joe Jackson, and Miles Teller as John Branca, who served Michael's manager after he fired his father

He is also the son of Alejandra Genevieve Oaziaza and Jermaine Jackson - the brother of Michael who was also a member of The Jackson 5

Jaafar and Nia embraced while filming a scene together

The filming in Los Angeles included a scene with Jaafar and Nia walking together

Jafaar was the spitting image of MJ while filming

The highly-anticipated film will follow the life of the late pop superstar

Jaafar and Nia were surrounded by crew while filming outdoors

An umbrella was used to keep Jaafar shielded between scenes

He is also the son of Alejandra Genevieve Oaziaza and Jermaine Jackson - the brother of Michael who was also a member of The Jackson 5.

The movie, which is simply titled Michael, will follow the iconic performer's life and story 'as we know it,' Antoine further expressed to the outlet.

The premise will not only follow his long-lasting musical career and iconic performances, but other aspects of his life, such as facing child abuse allegations in the 90s as well as his tragic death in 2009 at the age of 50 due to a drug overdose.

In regards to his 'approach' to the biopic, Fuqua stated, 'Just to tell the facts as we know it, about the artist, about the man, about the human being. You know, the good, bad, and the ugly.'