It was another day and another boho outfit for Elsa Pataky on Thursday.

The Spanish actress, 47, showed off her incredibly toned legs in a cute floral mini dress from her favourite fashion brand Spell as she ran errands with her children in Byron Bay.

The mother-of-three also flaunted her muscular biceps in a vintage frock from the label, which retails for $260.

Barefoot, Elsa accessorised with a pair of Ray-Ban sunglasses and appeared to be makeup free.

During the outing, the Interceptor star spent some quality time with her daughter India Rose, 11, and one of her nine-year-old twin sons after purchasing some healthy smoothies, laughing with her clan at a local café.

Elsa Pataky showed off her incredibly toned legs in a cute floral mini dress from her favourite label Spell as she ran errands with her children in Byron Bay

She later visited the post office, where she picked up a telescope for her $30million mansion she shares with husband Chris Hemsworth.

The Thor star left fans blushing on Wednesday after sharing a Valentine's Day post like no other.

He took to Instagram with a very racy video of himself grabbing Elsa as they swam underwater together.

The mother-of-three also flaunted her muscular biceps in a vintage frock from the label, which retails for $260

Barefoot, Elsa accessorised with a pair of Ray-Ban sunglasses and appeared to be makeup free

During the outing, the Interceptor star spent some quality time with her kids after purchasing some healthy smoothies

She was seen laughing with her clan at a local café

Bikini-clad Elsa appeared surprised as her hunky husband swam up and wrapped his arms around her waist.

Chris cheekily looked at the underwater camera as Elsa attempted to keep swimming with her husband latched onto her back.

'Happy Valentine's Day. This year I thought I'd share with you how babies are made in Australia,' Chris joked in the caption.

'It's both a game of passion, love and intense sportsmanship where everyone's a winner,' he concluded, adding a love heart and kiss emoji as well as tagging his wife's Instagram account.

She later visited the post office, where she picked up a telescope for her $38million mansion she shares with husband Chris Hemsworth

The star did the heavy lifting and carried the package herself to her car

Elsa also took a light-hearted approach to Valentine's Day this year, sharing a hilarious throwback photo of herself enjoying a date with Chris while filming an episode of his Disney+ docuseries, Limitless with Chris Hemsworth.

In the image, Elsa wore elaborate prosthetic makeup to make her look like an elderly woman, while Chris looked his own age.

During the episode, Elsa said she wanted to surprise Chris with her surprise makeover to help alleviate his fears about ageing, after he learned that he is at an increased risk of developing Alzheimer's disease.

The Thor star left fans blushing on Wednesday after sharing a Valentine's Day post like no other

He took to Instagram with a very racy video of himself grabbing Elsa, 47, as they swam underwater together

'Happy Valentine's Day my love. So many years together and we are still the same,' Elsa joked in her caption.

Chris and Elsa tied the knot during the Christmas holidays in 2010 and share three children - daughter India Rose and twin boys Sasha and Tristan.

The couple live in a $30million mansion in Broken Head near Byron Bay after relocating from Los Angeles to Australia nine years ago.