From the outside, this property looks like a smart two up two down. But behind its understated entrance is one of the most beautifully designed homes in London.

It is the only property with a brick façade in Rede Place, a quiet road in Westminster's Bayswater.

And yet while its exterior is well-presented, it does little to suggest what an extensive and sophisticated property lies behind its walls.

This London townhouse looks like a two up two down from the front, with its exterior showing little signs of the ultimate luxury lying behind its walls

The interior design and space make this property one of the most beautifully designed homes in London

There is a stunning double-height swimming pool in the property's sophisticated basement

The rental property is in the heart of London and yet boasts six bedrooms and extends across four levels, covering 8,156 square feet or 757.8 square metres.

There is a cinema and games room, as well as a sauna, gym and a double-height swimming pool.

The fixtures and finishes are first class, with the interior design include a palette of hardwood floors, skylights and a marble dining table.

There are air-conditioned bedrooms and Gaggenau appliances in the kitchen. And there is a self-contained one-bedroom suite that can be used as staff or guess accommodation.

The main living space is open-plan and includes a large seating area and some skylights

The extensive bar area is decorated in darker colours, which contrast with the rest of the house

Close attention has been paid to the interior design of the property with luxury oozing from the walls and outdoor spaces

The interior design includes a palette of hardwood floors, as well as a marble dining table

An aerial view of the property shows how far it extends from its main street entrance on Rede Place

The contemporary kitchen has a central island and patio doors leading to the outdoor space

Such luxury comes at a price, with the property available to rent for an eye-watering £130,000 a month.

It is the equivalent of £30,000 a week and requires a deposit of £120,000. The property is available via Domus Nova lettings agents.

The living room has space for a baby grand piano as well as some artwork and some large planters

The property is beautifully styled throughout, including some plants and unusual artwork

The property is available to rent for £130,000 a month, the equivalent of £30,000 a month

There is a beautiful cinema room with comfortable seating and some ceiling spotlights

It makes it one of the most expensive properties currently being advertised for rent online, according to property website Zoopla.

Daniel Copley, of Zoopla, said: 'At first glance, this property looks like a smart two-up two down. However, behind its understated entrance lies one of London's most beautifully designed homes.

'This spacious and fashionable property has a wide range of luxurious touches including a state-of-the-art kitchen with Gaggenau appliances, underfloor heating and a double-height swimming pool.'

The well-presented central London property is the only one in the street with a brick facade

There are six bedrooms including this one with a vaulted ceiling and a large seating area

The well-equipped gym has floor to ceiling mirrors along the entire length of one of the walls

The contemporary property is on the rental market through Domus Nova lettings agents

The property has good access to public transport with Bayswater and Notting Hill Gate Underground Stations 0.3 miles away.

There are also schools nearby, with Pembridge Hall School and College Park School both 0.1 miles away.