Kelly Brook has revealed what she eats in day and how it helps maintain her incredible curves.

The 44-year-old model has lost two stone since 2017 and has insisted she doesn't have any desire to lose any more weight and would never want to be a size zero.

Now Kelly has revealed she keeps herself in shape, telling MailOnline her diet and fitness secrets.

Breakfast varies depending on the plans ahead, with Kelly sitting down with a granola bar and coffee if there's time or grabbing a SlimFast shake to go if she's in rush.

Up next is another SlimFast shake for lunch or one of the weight loss brand's meal bars of bag of pretzels.

Kelly Brook has revealed what she eats in day and how it helps maintain her incredible curves, exclusively telling MailOnline her diet and fitness secrets (pictured in 2013)

Kelly always sets time aside for dinner, however, as she revealed it's a sacred time for herself and husband Jeremy Parisi and the pair also go out hiking together (pictured in 2018)

Kelly always sets time aside for dinner, however, as she revealed it's a sacred time for herself and husband Jeremy Parisi.

Jeremy, 38, ensures there's a healthy but hearty dinner on the table when she returns home from hosting the Heart Radio drivetime show.

Kelly explained: 'I'll come home to a nice cooked meal. He's very sweet, he'll always light a little candle and set the table.

'He's Italian-French so it's all about sitting down and eating together so we do that and a lot of walking.

'We try and keep fit and healthy together. We've got a dog so we go out on weekends for two hour hikes and stuff like that, which we love to do.

'It's definitely our lifestyle, we'd much rather be out walking the dog than be sitting at home watching a movie.'

Yet while Jeremy helps Kelly on her health and fitness journey but not with the goal of seeing her lose weight.

She explained: 'Jeremy's Italian so he likes he likes a big bum and boobies - so I don't have to worry about that!'

Breakfast varies depending on the plans ahead, with Kelly sitting down with a granola bar and coffee if there's time or grabbing a SlimFast shake to go if she's in rush

Kelly continued: 'You just have to realise that no one really cares what you look like other than you do. You've got to what makes you feel good because if you're trying to look a certain way to please someone else it's a never ending battle.

'I'm happy in myself and confident and I don't think my husband notices my weight if it fluctuates... if you feel good that that can only lead to more sex!'

Reflecting on the differences between her figure now and in her 20s and the public perception of weight, Kelly mused: 'I was called curvy a lot in my modelling days when I was just a very typical, normal looking woman. I was a lot lighter than I am now!

'I was a trailblazer for "curvy" models at the time because it was all about that skinny, waifish look at the time but I worked with lingerie brands celebrating curves.

'The men's magazine market also celebrated curves, so men were championing girls that look like me, whereas the female magazines weren't so much.

'I think we've come on so far and we embrace so many different shapes and sizes now.'

Revealing how the public mood has done a 180, she continued: 'I get trolled when I post about SlimFast because people are like, "why are you doing that? You don't need to do that!"

'And I have to explain it's not about slimming down for me, it's maintaining.'

But it's impossible to please everyone, and Kelly explained she gets trolled for her appearance now.

She reasoned: 'I think it's a shock for people if they still see me in their heads as that Nineties model.

'Now as a 44-year-old married woman working on a radio show, they're just two completely different women. You can't even compare.

'I don't want to go backwards, I just want to move forward.

'I'm really comfortable with who I am and how I look. I'm so glad I don't have any of those body anxieties anymore.

'So if people see me and think "oh my God, she's unrecognisable" they just need to get their heads around it.

'It's not anything to do with me, it's all on them. I don't worry because I'm sure if I looked at a picture of them from like 25 years ago, they'd look different as well!