I have stayed in hundreds of hotels across Britain as the Mail's undercover expert - these are my favourites... and the ones you should avoid! Hotels - and B&Bs for that matter - have become outrageously expensive post-pandemic. Some of the plusher ones in London charge in excess of £1,000 a night; elsewhere, £400 is normal. My favourite hotels in the UK (and the ones to avoid) by The Inspector

Is the Lake District's Hardknott Pass too dangerous to drive? Travel writer SIMON HEPTINSTALL describes the joys of tackling the extreme road - as some call for cars to avoid it altogether The Institute of Advanced Motorists is telling road users 'it could be one to avoid'. Simon here reveals the rewards that lie in store should you pluck up the courage to conquer Hardknott Pass. Is the Lake District's Hardknott Pass too dangerous to drive?

'The UK is bad vibes': I'm a Brit who moved to America... here is why it so much better than the UK British woman Amber Tiffeny, 20, moved to the US when she was 17 years old. She claims it has 'improved her quality of life' and the 'UK is bad vibes,' encouraging others to make the move. I'm a Brit who moved to America - here's why its better than the UK

Cute couples' holidays! From sun-kissed Tenerife to the romance of Rome, these are the perfect trips to enjoy together Nothing beats a holiday à deux: just the two of you enjoying a luxury escape together, perhaps a dreamy beach break, or happily strolling the cobbled streets of a new city. Cute couples' holidays! From tropical Tenerife to the romance of Rome

Seven ways to dodge the dreaded middle seat on a plane without paying extra (including when to board and how to make a special request) We've all been there. That moment when you check in online, opt not to pay for a seat and are assigned the one in the middle. But here's a handful of tricks that can help you get a window or aisle seat. Seven ways to dodge the dreaded middle seat on a plane

Airport parking has become a minefield... but here's how to PARK and NOT get taken for a ride Upset customers have told the Mail of damaged engines, lost keys and big repair bills when parking at the airport. Here we reveal the checklist drivers should use to avoid being ripped off. Here's how to park at the airport... and not get taken for a ride