Jennifer Aniston looked incredible in a little black dress at the 2024 People's Choice Awards on Sunday.

The 55-year-old actress looked effortlessly stylish as she took the stage in a strapless, black minidress with a flowing, asymmetrical skirt to highlight her toned legs.

She kept it simple yet chic as she sported a pair of black sandal heels for the award ceremony, which was held at the Barker Hangar in Santa Monica, California.

And the Friends alum — who took home the award for Best Drama TV Star for her role on The Morning Show — brought back her iconic, Rachel Green-inspired hairstyle for the evening.

For accessories, she opted for a few delicate gold jewelry pieces to complement her chic look.

Jennifer Aniston looked incredible in a LBD at the 2024 People's Choice Awards on Sunday. The 55-year-old actress looked effortlessly stylish as she took the stage in a strapless, black minidress with a flowing, asymmetrical skirt to highlight her toned legs

And the Friends alum — who took home the award for Best Drama TV Star for her role on The Morning Show — brought back her iconic, Rachel Green-inspired hairstyle for the evening. For accessories, she opted for a few delicate gold jewelry pieces to complement her chic look

People's Choice Awards 2024 Winners At a Glance

Music Male artist of the year: Jung Kook (WINNER) Female artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Male country artist of the year: Jelly Roll (WINNER) Female country artist of the year: Lainey Wilson (WINNER) Male Latin artist of the year: Bad Bunny (WINNER) Female Latin artist of the year: Shakira (WINNER) Pop artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Hip-hop artist of the year: Nicki Minaj (WINNER) R&B artist of the year: Beyoncé (WINNER) New artist of the year: Ice Spice (WINNER) Group/duo of the year: Stray Kids (WINNER) Song of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, “Vampire” (WINNER) Album of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, Guts (WINNER) Collaboration song of the year: Nicki Minaj & Ice Spice with Aqua, “Barbie World” (WINNER) Concert tour of the year: Taylor Swift, The Eras Tour (WINNER) Movies Movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Action movie of the year: The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Drama movie of the year: Oppenheimer (WINNER) Male movie star of the year: Ryan Gosling, Barbie (WINNER) Female movie star of the year: Margot Robbie, Barbie (WINNER) Margot Robbie is a leading contender for female movie star of the year for Barbie Action movie star of the year: Rachel Zegler, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie star of the year: Jennifer Lawrence, No Hard Feelings (WINNER) Drama movie star of the year Jenna Ortega, Scream VI (WINNER) Movie performance of the year America Ferrera, Barbie (WINNER) TV Show of the year: Grey’s Anatomy (WINNER) Comedy show of the year: Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Drama show of the year: The Last of Us (WINNER) Sci-fi/fantasy show of the year: Loki (WINNER) Reality show of the year: The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition show of the year: The Voice (WINNER) Bingeworthy show of the year: The Summer I Turned Pretty (WINNER) Male TV star of the year: Pedro Pascal, The Last of Us (WINNER) Female TV star of the year: Selena Gomez, Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Comedy TV star of the year: Jeremy Allen White, The Bear (WINNER) Drama TV star of the year: Jennifer Aniston, The Morning Show (WINNER) TV performance of the year Billie Eilish, Swarm (WINNER) Reality TV star of the year Khloé Kardashian, The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition contestant of the year Ariana Madix, Dancing with the Stars (WINNER) Daytime talk show of the year The Kelly Clarkson Show (WINNER) Nighttime talk show of the year The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon (WINNER) Host of the year Jimmy Fallon, That’s My Jam (WINNER) Pop Culture Social celebrity of the year Taylor Swift (WINNER) Comedy act of the year Chris Rock, Selective Outrage (WINNER) Athlete of the year Travis Kelce (WINNER) Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

She wore a delicate chain necklace, classic hoop earrings and a single bangle bracelet.

She looked radiant in a stunning makeup look featuring rosy blush and a glossy pink lip.

During the show, Aniston took home the award for the Best Drama TV Star for her performance on The Morning Show.

After accepting the honor from her co-star Jon Hamm, she gave a speech and thanked her fans for their support.

'I love doing our show, The Morning Show, we have so much fun,' she said.

'The reason I'm standing here today, is honestly only because of you, the people, because I wouldn't be here,' she continued.

'None of us would be here, really, without you.'

Aniston wrapped up in saying, 'So this means the world to me. And I really appreciate it from the bottom of my heart. Thank you.'

At the award ceremony, she also presented one of the biggest accolades of the night and honored her longtime friend Adam Sandler with the People's Icon Award.

She wore a delicate chain necklace, classic hoop earrings and a single bangle bracelet

She looked radiant in a stunning makeup look featuring rosy blush and a glossy pink lip

She also wore various statement rings to go with her deep red manicure

During the award ceremony, Aniston took the stage to present her longtime friend with the People's Icon Award before later giving a speech after winning Best Drama TV Star

The 49th annual People's Choice Awards are taking place at the Barker Hangar in Santa Monica, California.

Barbie and Oppenheimer AKA 'Barbenheimer' has ruled award season and tonight's show is no exception as they earned the most nods in the movie categories.

Margot Robbie and Ryan Reynolds flick is the top nominee with nine nominations including individual nods for the two leading stars.

Meanwhile, Christopher Nolan directed Oppenheimer follows behind with six including recognitions for Cillian Murphy and Florence Pugh.

Barbie and Oppenheimer AKA 'Barbenheimer' has ruled award season and tonight's show is no exception as they earned the most nods in the movie categories

Two weeks after her record breaking run at the Grammy Awards Taylor Swift leads all musicians wife five nominations.

She was nominated for a range of categories including for her songs, social media presence, and even her The Eras Tour concert film which was a massive global hit at the box office.

Taylor was in interesting company as rapper Nicki Minaj and country musicians Luke Combs and Morgan Wallen also earned five nods.

When it comes to television Only Murders In The Building earned the most nominations including recognitions for Selena Gomez, Meryl Streep, and Steve Martin.

The reality show of the year category will be especially interesting as Vanderpump Rules will be the favorite coming off of the Scandoval scandal as it will be facing heavy competition including from Hulu's The Kardashians.

The event will be hosted by Marvel Cinematic Universe star Simu Liu who is best known for his roles in sitcom Kim’s Convenience as well as in Marvel’s Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings.

He also portrayed one of the several Kens in the aforementioned $1.4billion blockbuster Barbie.

As hosting during award season has been a major talking point, the 34-year-old Chinese-Canadian actor told USA Today: 'It’s not about slandering anyone.

Two weeks after her record breaking run at the Grammy Awards Taylor Swift leads all musicians wife five nominations; she is pictured in March 2023

When it comes to television Only Murders In The Building earned the most nominations including recognitions for Selena Gomez, Meryl Streep (pictured), and Steve Martin

The event will be hosted by Marvel Cinematic Universe star Simu Liu (pictured in January) who is best known for his roles in sitcom Kim’s Convenience as well as in Marvel’s Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings

'It’s not about getting the most offensive joke that you can possibly get away with. It’s not about being the guy that’s cutting other people down.'

The event will also see major presenters including musicians Victoria Monet and Kane Brown.

Kylie Minogue, Lainey Wilson and Lenny Kravitz are also set to perform on the telecast.

NBC and E! will air a two-hour live telecast of the 2024 People’s Choice Awards ceremony on on Sunday, Feb. 18, at 8 p.m. ET. The show can also be streamed on Peacock.