A new thriller series has taken Netflix by storm, with many viewers claiming they've finished it in 'one night.'

The show is called A Killer Paradox and has an impressive score of 100 percent on Rotten Tomatoes, as well as 91 percent Audience Score.

It follows a college student who murders a stranger, but soon discovers that the victim was actually a serial killer.

The South Korean crime series stars SAG Award winner Choi Woo-shik as well as Son Suk-ku and Lee Hee-jun, and was directed by Lee Chang Hee (Strangers from Hell) and written by screenwriter Kim Da Min.

Choi is best known for his role in the Academy Award winning film Parasite.

A new thriller series has taken Netflix by storm, with many viewers claiming they've finished it in 'one night'

The South Korean crime show is called A Killer Paradox and has an impressive score of 100 percent on Rotten Tomatoes, as well as 91 percent Audience Score

Though the protagonist might have done society a favor by taking a serial killer off the streets, he must still try to avoid arrest.

It proves not to be an easy task, as a homicide detective becomes determined to uncover the truth.

The show was added to Netflix's extensive library earlier this month, and each episode is around one hour.

'Well-worth watching. The series is several steps above the usual soulless killer-who-kills-killers series or movie (i.e. Dexter or Hannibal),' one person wrote on Rotten Tomatoes.

'Korea’s puttin’ out some bangers…this is the stuff! Choi Woo Shik, Son Suk Ku and Lee Hee Joon give stellar performances. Stylish and visually breathtaking. I binged the entire show in one sitting and want more,' another added.

Fans took to praise the series on LADbible's Netflix Bangers Facebook Group, calling it 'fantastic' and 'gripping.'

'Finished in one night,' one viewer wrote.

The praise continued on X (formerly known as Twitter), with one user writing, 'binged all of a killer paradox, will be waiting patiently for season 2.'

The premise of the show, starring Choi Woo-shik (pictured), follows a college student who murders a stranger, but soon discovers the man was actually a serial killer

Though the protagonist might have done society a favor by taking a serial killer off the streets, he must still try to avoid arrest

It proves not to be an easy task, as a homicide detective, played by Son Suk-ku (pictured) becomes determined to uncover the truth

The show was added to Netflix earlier this month, and each episode is around one hour. It was directed by Lee Chang Hee (Strangers from Hell) and written by screenwriter Kim Da Min

'Starting a killer paradox, 6 mins in and I'm already hooked,' another added.

At a recent press conference Choi described his character as 'someone who internally justifies his killings because it's aimed at people who are evil.'

However, he clarified: 'I think that killing cannot be justified at all.'

'If I had the power to identify evil people like Tang does, I wouldn’t go killing them, but I would certainly report them to the police.'

Netflix has yet to renew Killer Paradox for a second season.

Korean content has been a big hit on Netflix in recent years, with shows like Squid Game, All of Us are Dead, Hellbound and Extraordinary Attorney Woo all winning over international audiences.