Carey Mulligan, Ruth Wilson and Jodie Foster led the stars at a swanky Oscars Nominees Reception held at The Dorchester Hotel in London on Saturday evening.

Carey, 39, who is nominated for Best Actress for her role in Maestro, was the epitome of chic in a stylish black leather co-ord which boasted a eye-catching coat and figure-hugging trousers.

The stunner, who was joined by husband Marcus Mumford, completed the look with a pair of pointed heels and accentuated her features with glam make-up.

Meanwhile Ruth, 42, was ravishing in red and teased a glimpse of her toned midriff in a stylish top with racy cut outs and tie detailing.

The Woman In The Wall star teamed it with a pair of darker merlot trousers and even carried the colour story into her lipstick.

Carey Mulligan (L) Ruth Wilson (C) and Jodie Foster (R) led the stars at a swanky Oscars Nominees Reception held at The Dorchester Hotel in London on Saturday evening

Best Actress nominee Carey, 39, was the epitome of chic in a stylish black leather co-ord which boasted a eye- catching coat and figure-hugging trousers

Meanwhile Jodie, 61, who is nominated as Best Supporting Actress for her role in Nyad, looked sensational in a perfectly tailored black suit.

Her blazer boasted gold embellishment lapels and she layered it over a plunging blouse while accessorising with simple jewellery.

The two films at the centre of this past summer's box office showdown - Barbie and Oppenheimer - are both firmly in the Oscar race.

Both Barbie and Oppenheimer are up for Best Picture, with Barbie up for eight Oscars while Oppenheimer leads all contenders with a whopping 13 nominations.

Director Christopher Nolan's magnum opus fell just short of the most nominations by a film in Oscar history, one shy of the record 14 held by La La Land, Titanic and All About Eve.

Oppenheimer will be vying for four of the top five awards - Best Picture, Best Director (Nolan), Best Actor (Cillian Murphy) and Best Adapted Screenplay (Nolan).

It will also be vying for Best Supporting Actor (Robert Downey Jr.), Best Supporting Actress (Emily Blunt) and a slew of technical categories as well.

Barbie made more headlines for those who weren't nominated, with fans expressing their disapproval of Margot Robbie's Best Actress snub, along with Greta Gerwig for Best Director.

The stunner, who was joined by husband Marcus Mumford , completed the look with a pair of pointed heels and accentuated her features with glam make-up

Meanwhile Ruth, 42, was ravishing in red and teased a glimpse of her toned midriff in a stylish top with racy cut outs and tie detailing

The Woman In The Wall star teamed it with a pair of darker merlot trousers and even carried the colour story into her lipstick

Ruth (L) posed for a snap alongside Carey (R)

The pair were both dressed to impress on the big night

Meanwhile Jodie, 61, who is nominated as Best Supporting Actress for her role in Nyad, looked sensational in a perfectly tailored black suit.

Her blazer boasted gold embellishment lapels and she layered it over a plunging blouse while accessorising with simple jewellery (pictured with Cillian Murphy)

Barbie star Margot Robbie (L) also attended alongside the movie's director Greta Gerwig (R)

Carey also caught up with her Maestro co-star and director Bradley Cooper

The pair appeared in great spirits and shared a giggle at the swanky event

Carey appeared to be handing Bradley his own business card

Robbie was nominated for Best Picture, though, for her work as a producer through her LuckyChap Entertainment company, and Gerwig was nominated for Best Adapted Screenplay with her co-writer and husband Noah Baumbach.

Ryan Gosling was nominated for Best Supporting Actor for playing Ken, along with America Ferrera for Best Supporting Actress for Gloria, who delivered one of the movie's most rousing speeches.

The 10-movie Best Picture field is rounded out by American Fiction, Anatomy of a Fall, The Holdovers, Killers of the Flower Moon, Maestro, Past Lives, Poor Things and The Zone of Interest.

Lily Gladstone also made history by becoming the first indegenous actor to be nomianted for Best Actress for her turn in Killers of the Flower Moon.

Saltburn's Barry Keoghan kept things cool in an all black ensemble

The Irish actor oozed confidence as he posed for the cameras

Best Supporting Actress Da'Vine Joy Randolph stunned in a sweeping velvet gown

Emma Stone also became just the second woman ever to be nominated for Best Actress and Best Picture for her role as a producer on Poor Things.

The only other woman to have that distinction was Frances McDormand, who won both Best Actress and Best Picture for Nomadland in 2021.

The 96th Academy Awards will be held on March 10 at 7 p.m. live on ABC, hosted for a fourth time by Jimmy Kimmel.

It comes after the nominations for the 2024 Golden Raspberry Awards was announced, awards given out to performers and movies deemed the 'worst' of the year.

Jennifer Lopez, Megan Fox and Vin Diesel are given Razzie nods as Sylvester Stallone's Expend4bles led the list in seven categories