The sole survivor of a fatal mushroom lunch in which three people died from suspected poisoning has broken his silence more than six months after the tragedy.

Ian Wilkinson, a pastor at the Korumburra Baptist Church in eastern Victoria, delivered a heartfelt sermon to the congregation on February 11.

The 70-year-old revealed he would have celebrated his 45th wedding anniversary with his wife Heather that week, who died in hospital just days after the meal.

He reportedly told those gathered last Sunday it had been a 'pretty big week'.

'At the start of the week, it was six months since Heather and Gail and Don went to be with the Lord,' Mr Wilkinson said.

'And yesterday was our 45th wedding anniversary, so it's been a pretty big week, but I am grateful for all that God has given me, God has done through me.'

Ian Wilkinson (pictured with wife Heather) a pastor at the Korumburra Baptist Church in eastern Victoria, delivered a heartfelt sermon to the congregation on January 11

Mr Wilkinson was the sole survivor of a deadly mushroom lunch held at the home of Erin Patterson on July 29, 2023. Pictured is Korumburra Baptist Church in eastern Victoria

The pastor, who has spent 25 years at the church, jokingly asked the congregation if they remembered a Bible teaching series that was 'cut short' last year.

'Does anybody remember our series on Genesis that we began last year?' he asked.

'Has anybody got any vague memories of that? It was dramatically cut short half way through Genesis chapter two.'

Mr Wilkinson said he was grateful for the support offered by the congregation who he told 'the ways are sometimes hard but God is good. He's with us'.

'A pastor is nothing without the team, the family of God, without the partners in the gospel and you have been such wonderful partners and let me encourage you to keep on going,' he told those gathered.

Several shared their admiration for the embattled pastor's 'servanthood, leadership, wisdom, thoughtfulness and wonderful teaching', the Herald Sun reports.

'When Ian was approached to be our pastor, the church was quite small and had been through a hard time but this didn't put Ian off… he was keen to follow God's lead,' one woman said.

'The funds were tight and the manpower was very light on but we were led by Ian and Heather's faith, trust and example.'

Accused mushroom chef Erin Patterson, 49, was arrested at her home and charged with three counts of murder and five counts of attempted murder on November 2

Don and Gail Patterson, both aged 70, were also victims of the suspected mushroom poisoning

Accused mushroom chef Erin Patterson, 49, was arrested at her home in Leongatha, eastern Victoria, and charged with three counts of murder and five counts of attempted murder on November 2.

It came several months after the mother-of-two served a beef wellington lunch suspected of being laced with death cap mushrooms at her home on July 29.

Mr Wilkinson was the sole survivor of the deadly lunch, which claimed the life of his wife Heather Wilkinson, 66, and Don and Gail Patterson, both 70.

Patterson's husband Simon pulled out of the lunch at the last minute.

Patterson remains behind bars in Victoria's largest women's prison, Dame Phyllis Frost Centre in Melbourne's western industrial suburbs.

She has not entered a plea in any of the charges.

Police are expected to present their brief of evidence on March 25, 2023.