The first ever winner of Big Brother, and makeover king, Craig Phillips, has revealed that he is selling his family home.

Park Avenue in Liverpool's Prescot is the house that he built with his wife Laura.

Speaking exclusively to MailOnline Property and ThisIsMoney he explained the property was their 'dream home'.

But their media work, which includes their successful YouTube channel Mr & Mrs DIY, means they need more space.

They have an office and studio at home, where six members of staff work. And they are continuing to grow, so need more space.

Park Avenue in Liverpool's Prescot is the house that Craig built with his wife Laura

Craig Phillips is also known for his various TV appearances such as ITV's 60 Minute Makeover

Built by Craig and his team, the five-bedroom property is called Park Avenue and is in Liverpool's Eccleston Park, Prescot.

It sits on 0.6 acres and extends across 7,265 square feet, with parking for more than 15 cars.

It is on the market with a price tag of £1.5million and is being sold by Jackson-Stops estate agents.

The large living are has a modern kitchen with separate island and a large dining space

DIY master Craig lives at the five-bedroom self-build with his wife Laura and their children

Craig and his wife Laura are behind the successful YouTube channel titled Mr & Mrs DIY

The main entrance includes several staircases leaving to the second floor of the property

The unique property was built in 2019, and extends across an impressive 7,265 square feet

Craig who is also known for TV appearances such as ITV's 60 Minute Makeover said his family had loved living there but were now looking toward a new project in the Midlands.

'Laura and I have loved living here in our dream build for the past four or five years,' he said.

'However, we have our sights set further afield now, closer to the Midlands area.

'We are looking at a new chapter in our life with a bit more space in the countryside. We will then be central to all the family and I have a lot of friends in that area.'

The property is on the market with a price tag of £1.5million and is being sold by Jackson-Stops estate agents

The house has a dedicated space for relaxing with a snooker table that sits alongside a bar

Outside, in the rear garden, there is space for plenty of seating area as well as a hot tub

People often refrain from a new project after undertaking their first self-build due to the stress.

But not Craig and his wife who are now looking for a plot of land.

Craig said: 'You see it that some people go through stressful times when they build their own house.

'Even though I have a team of builders, it was still stressful as you have to juggle money. And things never go to plan as organically things change.

'Trying to build your own house is difficult. But it is also exciting. We have looked at three or four plots, some are close to the river. We've also looked at some big houses with land that needs some work.'

The property is also home to their media work, which includes their successful YouTube channel Mr & Mrs DIY

The couple have created a gym in the house, with various pieces of equipment and floor to ceiling mirros

The couple's bedroom has a bath tub sat between windows and alongside the double bed

There is an attractive bar at the property, with several bar stools as well as a chaise longue

He explained that their options provide room to expand. They now have children and an expanding media business.

He said: 'We work from home and want to build a new TV studio as we now have half a dozen staff working here at the house. We have an office and studio but we have outgrown it. We need more space.'

The offices and studio are for their media work with Mr & Mrs DIY, their YouTube channel that has almost 400 videos.

'When we built the house first or five years ago, we didn't think about selling it, but we are moving on to a new chapter,' he concluded.