Streets across Britain are being plunged into darkness by cash-strapped councils aiming to save up to £1million a year and avoid bankruptcy.

Dozens of local authorities have plans to dim street lights on main roads at night to cut costs, a move which safety groups have now warned could put women at 'serious risk'.

Croydon London Borough Council aims to save up to £1 million a year by dimming their lights.

Havering London Borough Council said it had no choice but to dim the brightness of 4,000 lights on its main roads between midnight and 5am.

And Cornwall has decided to switch off around 35,000 lights, more than half of its supply, within the next few months as part of a cost cutting exercise.

Havering admitted it had passed its 'toughest budget ever' with huge cuts amid a £32.5million deficit - projected to rise to £81.9million over the next four years.

But the move was blasted by campaigners who say that it puts women at risk from predatory men who are emboldened by the dimmed lights.

Streets across Britain are being plunged into darkness by cash-strapped councils aiming to save up to £1 million a year and avoid bankruptcy (file image)

Dozens of local authorities have plans to dim street lights on main roads at night to cut costs, a move which safety groups have now warned could put women at 'serious risk' (file image)

Among those making the move, Havering London Borough Council said this week that it had no choice but to dim the brightness of 4,000 lights on its main roads. Pictured: The entrance to Havering Town Hall at night

Our Streets Now, a group which fights to end the public sexual harassment of women and girls, claimed the council was treating their safety as 'an afterthought'.

'We know from research, from our members, and from the experiences of women and girls up and down the country that low and no street lighting poses a risk to their safety', a spokesperson told The Telegraph.

The council's leader, Ray Morgan, said however that he 'fully recognised the worries around safety' and that lights on residential roads would 'remain on full power and brightness'.

Meanwhile, Croydon London Borough Council also aims to save up to £1 million a year by dimming their lights.

The three times-bankrupt London borough wants to introduce a new street lighting policy in which there would be a 50 per cent reduction in lighting levels in residential streets and main traffic routes.

This move would reduce the council's use of energy by 33 per cent, consequently saving them around £967,000, they said.

In Croydon, there are 23,500 street lights that can be adjusted from a central control room.

After carrying out a trial last year, a report said that there were no complaints during the test, and no 'direct increase in street crimes'.

Last year Cornwall Council announced plans to switch off 35,000 street lights in a bid to cut costs. Pictured: Street lights shining at night in the Cornwall seaside town of St Ives

Women's safety campaigners have blasted the decision, saying it could put them at risk (file image)

But the Suzy Lamplugh Trust, which supports victims of stalking, said that while it lacks recent research, historical surveys showed that 'the majority of respondents perceive their personal safety to be more at risk in areas where dimming or switching off of streetlights occurs'.

A spokesperson for the charity told MailOnline: 'What we would want to know is to what extent has the council consulted with local people about the proposed changes and how will they monitor the impact of the changes on people's feelings of, and actual, safety?

'In addition, we would emphasise that street lighting in any case is not the answer to tackling crime including violence against women and girls and we would urge the council to publish their wider plans to tackle this.'

In South East England, Hampshire County Council spend approximately £4.2 million per year on street lighting.

Since 2010 they have introduced various dimming measures, but they are now proposing to extend the time streetlights are switched off from midnight until 5am, as it looks to plug the gap of a budget blackhole of £132million.

Doing this could save the County Council £500,000 each year, they said.

Claire Hemmings, 54, is concerned about the plans to limit street lighting, as she worries about the safety of her 16 year old daughter, Loulou, after someone was recently attacked near their home.

'There's not very much lighting as it is,' she said.

'Cutting street lighting is ridiculous - awful. They should be looking into solar solutions.'

In South East England, Hampshire County Council spend approximately £4.2 million per year on street lighting

The Women's Centre Cornwall say Cornwall's decision to switch off more than half of its street lights could lead to women 'taking even more precautions then they are already forced to'

Training nurse Natasha Evans, 35, said lighting has 'always been a problem' as a woman walking back in the dark.

'There are quite a lot of places I wouldn't walk at night,' she added.

Also down south, Cornwall has decided to switch off around 35,000 lights, more than half of its supply, within the next few months as part of a cost cutting exercise.

The Women's Centre Cornwall charity raised concerns about women's safety in public spaces after dark following the announcement, but emphasised the root of the problem was 'misogynistic beliefs held by perpetrators who harass and abuse women in public spaces'.

According to the charity, national statistics show that the majority of women are at risk from men known to them, rather than from strangers in public spaces, stating 6 in 7 rapes against women across England & Wales are perpetrated by someone they know.

A spokesperson for the charity said: 'The decision to turn off 35,000 street lights across Cornwall between midnight – 5am could unfortunately lead women to take even more precautions than they are already forced to, however we would emphasise that the root of the problem is the misogynistic beliefs held by perpetrators who harass and abuse women in public spaces.

'We recently carried out a ‘Walk My Walk’ survey which showed only 6% of women respondents said that street lights would help them feel safer on the streets of Cornwall. The majority of women said we need to address the root cause of violence and abuse through education and cultural change.'