A UK-registered cargo ship has come under attack off the coast of Yemen amid heightened tensions in the Red Sea.

The attack occurred 35 nautical miles south of Al Mukha in Yemen on Sunday night, the UK's Maritime Trade Operations (UKMTO) said.

An explosion in close proximity to the open hatch general cargo ship resulted in damage, but all crew are safe and 'authorities are investigating', the agency said in an advisory note.

The report gave no further details but Sky News, citing private security firm Ambrey, said that the ship was a UK-registered vessel and had come 'under attack' in the Bab al-Mandab Strait.

Yemen's Iran-backed Houthi rebels have launched repeated drone and missile attacks against international commercial shipping in the Red Sea since mid-November, saying it is acting in solidarity with Palestine as Israel wages war on Hamas.

The UK and the US have carried out joint airstrikes against the Houthis in recent weeks in order to stop attacks on commercial shipping.

The UK's Maritime Trade Operations (UKMTO) said it received a report of an incident 35 nautical miles south of Al Mukha in Yemen on Sunday night. An explosion in close proximity to the vessel had resulted in damage, but all crew are safe and 'authorities are investigating'

BREAKING: UK-registered cargo ship 'under attack' near Yemen https://t.co/PAiZ4D1jU3



📺 Sky 501, Virgin 602, Freeview 233 and YouTube pic.twitter.com/qJGtU1lhep — Sky News (@SkyNews) February 18, 2024

The ship was heading north during its journey from Khor Fakkan in the United Arab Emirates to Varna, Bulgaria, when the attack occurred, Ambrey revealed.

'The partially laden vessel briefly slowed from ten to six knots and deviated course, and contacted the Djiboutian Navy, before returning to her previous course and speed,' the firm added.

The ship is believed to Belize-flagged, Lebanese-operated and UK registered.

Since November, the Houthis have repeatedly targeted ships in the Red Sea and the Bab al-Mandab Strait over Israel's offensive in Gaza.

They have often targeted vessels with tenuous or no clear links to Israel, imperilling shipping in a key route for trade among Asia, the Middle East and Europe.

The attacks have prompted several companies to halt Red Sea journeys and opt for a longer and more expensive route around Africa.

The Houthis fired naval missiles at the British ship 'LYCAVITOS' in the Gulf of Aden last Thursday.

The group said it will continue to enforce a 'blockade on Israeli navigation in the Red and Arabian Seas until a ceasefire is achieved and a siege is lifted in the Gaza Strip'.

Meanwhile, spiralling shipping costs triggered by the Houthi rebel attacks on vessels in the Red Sea could mean that Britons could face severe price rises and shortages on major household items like white goods, sofas, garden furniture and barbecues this summer.

The price of global shipping containers jumped by more than 300 per cent from November 2023 to January this year as a result of the chaos.