Russian courts have sentenced hundreds of people detained at events where they laid flowers for Russian opposition leader and renowned Putin critic Alexei Navalny, who was found dead in prison earlier this week.

Navalny, 47, fell unconscious and died on Friday after a walk at the remote Arctic penal colony where he was serving a three-decade sentence, the prison service said.

His sudden death was a crushing blow to many Russians, who had pinned their hopes for the future on President Putin's fiercest foe.

Mourners have left hundreds of flowers at the Solovetsky Stone monument in Moscow, with US ambassador Lynne Tracy and Britain's Nigel Casey among those seen paying their respects.

More than 400 people have been detained in Russia while paying tribute to Navalny, who had remained vocal in his unrelenting criticism of the Kremlin even after surviving a nerve agent poisoning and receiving multiple prison terms.

Details of rulings published by the city's court service over the weekend showed 154 people had been given jail time of up to 14 days for violating Russia's strict anti-protest laws.

Rights groups and independent media outlets reported a handful of similar sentences in other cities across the country.

There are still few details of why he died, but prison authorities have said he suffered 'sudden death syndrome'. However, Navalny's allies and many world leaders have blamed his death on Putin and his government.

A woman leaves a tribute to Russian politician Alexi Navalny, near to the Russian Embassy in London on Sunday

A woman is pictured in Berlin, Germany, laying down flowers in memory of Navalny

A woman places a sign amongst flowers as a tribute in London on Sunday

Hundreds of people in dozens of Russian cities have streamed to ad-hoc memorials and monuments to victims of political repressions with flowers and candles to pay tribute to Alexei Navalny. A mourner is pictured laying flowers on Saturday at the Solovetsky Stone in Moscow

A man lays flowers to pay the last respect to Alexei Navalny at the monument, a large boulder from the Solovetsky islands, where the first camp of the Gulag political prison system was established, near the historical the Federal Security Service building in Moscow on Sunday

Flowers and a picture are left as a tribute to Russian politician Alexi Navalny near the Russian Embassy in London on Sunday

A woman lays flowers mourning Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny's death near the memorial to political prisoners in Moscow, Russia on Saturday

Hundreds of people in dozens of Russian cities have streamed to ad-hoc memorials and monuments to victims of political repressions with flowers and candles to pay tribute to Navalny.

Police over the weekend arrested hundreds of Russians in dozens of cities who came to lay flowers and light candles in his honour at memorials to victims of Stalin-era repressions.

Anti-Kremlin demonstrations or public shows of opposition to the regime are effectively illegal in Russia under strict military censorship rules and laws against unapproved rallies.

Police and men in plain clothes patrolled sites in dozens of Russian cities where people had gathered to commemorate Navalny over the weekend.

There were several reports of them removing the pop-up memorials overnight, and footage showed hooded men scooping up flowers into bin bags on a bridge next to the Kremlin where another leading Putin critic, Boris Nemtsov, was killed in 2015.

The US Embassy in Moscow shared a photo on X of Ambassador Tracy visiting the memorial and issued a statement reading: 'Today at the Solovetsky Stone we mourn the death of Alexei Navalny and other victims of political repression in Russia.

'We extend our deepest condolences to Alexei Navalny's family, colleagues and supporters. His strength is an inspiring example. We honor his memory.'

Britain's embassy shared a photo of Casey visiting the memorial on Saturday and called for a 'full and transparent investigation into Navalny's death.'

The Foreign Office issued a statement saying: 'Alexei Navalny dedicated his life to exposing the corruption of the Russian system.

'The UK has summoned the Russian Embassy to make clear we hold the authorities responsible for his death. There must be a credible and transparent investigation.'

In more than a dozen cities, police had detained 401 people by Saturday night, according to the OVD-Info rights group that tracks political arrests and provides legal aid.

More than 200 arrests were made in St Petersburg, Russia's second largest city, the group said.

The US Embassy in Moscow issued a statement reading: 'Today at the Solovetsky Stone we mourn the death of Alexei Navalny and other victims of political repression in Russia. 'We extend our deepest condolences to Alexei Navalny's family, colleagues and supporters. His strength is an inspiring example. We honor his memory'

US ambassador Lynne Tracy lays flowers on Sunday to pay the last respect to Alexei Navalny at the monument, a large boulder from the Solovetsky islands, where the first camp of the Gulag political prison system was established

Britain's embassy shared a photo of Ambassador Nigel Casey visiting the memorial on Saturday and called for a 'full and transparent investigation into Navalny's death'

The Foreign Office said it summoned a representative of the Russian Embassy to 'make it clear that we hold the authorities responsible for his death'

Prison authorities have said Navalny suffered 'sudden death syndrome'. However, his allies and many world leaders have blamed his death on Putin and his government. Pictured: Alexei Navalny is seen during the trial of his detention in March 2017

A photo of Alexei Navalny lies among flowers near the Wall of Grief monument in Moscow, Russia on Saturday

More than 400 people have been detained in Russia while paying tribute to Navalny. Officers are pictured detaining a man near the Wall of Grief monument on Saturday

Among those detained there was Grigory Mikhnov-Voitenko, a priest of the Apostolic Orthodox Church - a religious group independent of the Russian Orthodox Church - who announced plans on social media to hold a memorial service for Navalny and was arrested on Saturday morning outside his home.

He was charged with organizing a rally and placed in a police holding cell, but was later taken to hospital after suffering a stroke, OVD-Info reported.

Courts in St Petersburg have ordered 42 of those detained on Friday to serve from one to six days in jail, while nine others were fined, court officials said.

In Moscow, at least six people were ordered to serve 15 days in jail, according to OVD-Info. One person was also jailed in the southern city of Krasnodar and two more in the city of Bryansk, the group said.

The news of Navalny's death reverberated across the globe, with many accusing Putin of having him murdered.

In an exchange with reporters shortly after a church service on Saturday, US President Joe Biden reiterated his stance that Putin is ultimately to blame for Navalny's death.

Biden said: 'The fact of the matter is, Putin is responsible. Whether he ordered it, he's responsible for the circumstance. It's a reflection of who he is. It cannot be tolerated.'

Police officers detain a woman with a placard reading "Murderers" during a gathering in memory of Alexei Navalny near the Wall of Grief monument on Saturday

A woman holds a placard reading "Putin is the killer of Navalny" during a gathering in memory of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny near the Wall of Grief monument on Saturday

Police officers detain a man during a gathering in memory of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny near the Wall of Grief monument on Saturday

A woman sits by the Wall of Grief monument to the victims of political repressions, where people gather to honor the memory of Alexei Navalny in Moscow on Saturday

Police officers detain a woman during a gathering in memory of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny near the Wall of Grief monument on Saturday

Thousands of people across Russia on Saturday laid flowers at memorials of Stalin's political repressions in memory of Navalny. Pictured is a man laying flowers near the Wall of Grief monument in Moscow

A woman prays after laying flowers to pay the last respect to Alexei Navalny at the Solovetsky Stone monument in Moscow on Sunday

People lay flowers at the Wall of Grief monument in Moscow on Saturday

Meanwhile, Navalny's wife, Yulia Navalnaya, published a picture of the couple on Instagram on Sunday in her first social media post since his death.

The caption read simply: 'I love you.'

Questions about the cause of death lingered on Sunday, and it remained unclear when the authorities would release his body to his family.

Navalny's team said on Saturday that the politician was 'murdered' and accused the authorities of deliberately stalling the release of the body, with his mother and lawyers getting contradicting information from various institutions where they went in their quest to retrieve the body.

'They're driving us around in circles and covering their tracks,' Navalny's spokeswoman Kira Yarmysh said on Saturday.

Navalny's closest ally and strategist Leonid Volkov added: 'Everything there is covered with cameras in the colony. Every step he took was filmed from all angles all these years. Each employee has a video recorder. In two days, there has been not a single video leaked or published. There is no room for uncertainty here.'

A note handed to Navalny's mother said he died at 2.17pm local time on Friday, according to Yarmysh.

Prison officials told his mother when she arrived at the colony on Saturday that her son had perished from 'sudden death syndrome', Ivan Zhdanov, the director of Navalny's Anti-Corruption Foundation, wrote on X.

Russia's Federal Penitentiary Service reported Navalny felt sick after a walk on Friday and became unconscious at the colony, which is in the town of Kharp, in the Yamalo-Nenets region about 1,200 miles north-east of Moscow.

An ambulance arrived but he could not be revived, the service said, adding his cause of death is still 'being established'.

A woman who just put flowers in memory of Alexei Navalny, cries near the Wall of Grief monument in Moscow, Russia on Saturday

A mourner cries near the Solovetsky stone at Lubyanka square on Saturday as she pays her respects to Alexei Navalny

A photo of Alexei Navalny lies among flowers near the Wall of Grief monument on Saturday

A woman put flowers in memory of Alexei Navalny at the Solovetsky stone at Lubyanka square on Saturday

A woman lays flowers to pay the last respect to Alexei Navalny at the monument, a large boulder from the Solovetsky islands, on Sunday

Navalny had been jailed since January 2021, when he returned to Moscow after recuperating in Germany from nerve agent poisoning he blamed on the Kremlin. He has received three prison terms since his arrest, on a number of charges he has rejected as politically motivated.

After the last verdict that handed him a 19-year term, Navalny said he understood he was 'serving a life sentence, which is measured by the length of my life or the length of life of this regime'.

Hours after Navalny's death was reported, his wife made a dramatic appearance at the Munich Security Conference.

Navalnaya said she was unsure at the time if she could believe the news from official Russian sources, 'but if this is true, I want Putin and everyone around Putin, Putin's friends, his government to know that they will bear responsibility for what they did to our country, to my family and to my husband'.