The next time you're on a plane and you hear the crew refer to you as an HOB, take it as a compliment.

But if they call you a VIP, it may not mean they regard you as a 'very important person'.

So reveals Jay Robert, who has worked as senior cabin crew for Emirates and who runs the popular Fly Guy's Cabin Crew Lounge network.

He spoke to MailOnline Travel about some of the secret code words that flight attendants use for passengers they think are hot, find irritating, and more.

Jay said: 'When you're confined to a plane for long hours, boredom kicks in, prompting many crew members to tune into what we call CCFM, or cabin crew radio, for the latest gossip from the aisles.

Former flight attendant Jay Robert spoke to MailOnline Travel about some of the secret code words that flight attendants use for passengers they think are hot, find irritating, and more

'In these intriguing jump-seat whispers, passengers might catch wind of the playful codes flight attendants use to discreetly describe their BOB (Best On Board) or PITA (Pain In The Backside) passengers.'

Jay's list comes partly from reaching out to his Crew Lounge followers to discover the codes unique to their crew communities.

He said: 'The highlights include ABP – Able Bodied Passenger or Person. An official code for a passenger (not a crew member) whom the crew mentally selects during each flight to assist in case of an emergency.

'Crew unofficially use this code to describe a passenger they are attracted to and think is fit and able-bodied.

'BOB can also mean Babe On Board – another flirty abbreviation that some flight attendants will use to inform each other who they're secretly crushing on.

'SVML stands for Suddenly Vegetarian Meal, a passenger who didn't order a special meal and probably isn't vegetarian and doesn't like the meal choice offered, so they suddenly become a vegetarian to get something else to eat.'

Jay revealed that crew will use POS to describe a Passenger Of Size, someone who requires an extension seatbelt. And the term 'mermaid' is deployed to refer to 'a passenger who lays across empty seats to prevent others from sitting in their row'.

Jay Robert, who has worked as senior cabin crew for Emirates and who runs the popular Fly Guy's Cabin Crew Lounge network

And what about the aforementioned HOB and VIP?

They stand for Hotty On Board and the latter can mean Very Irritating Person.

Jay explained that cabin crew also use serious acronyms called Special Services Request (SSR) codes.

When you're confined to a plane for long hours, boredom kicks in, prompting many crew members to tune into what we call CCFM, or cabin crew radio, for the latest gossip from the aisles Former Emirates flight attendant Jay Robert

He said: 'Specific SSR codes serve as a discreet way for airline staff to handle sensitive situations regarding passengers' privacy.

'For instance, when someone is being deported, ground staff might use the codes DEPA or DEPU to discreetly communicate this information to the crew during boarding, avoiding the need to openly state, "This passenger is being deported."'

A related code is INAD, which refers to an individual who's been denied entry to a country.

Jay continued: 'Other common SSR codes you might hear used on a plane are UM (a child travelling alone), MEDA (a medical case), DPAX (disruptive passenger), DND (Do Not Disturb), EBL (Eat Before Landing) and CIP – to signify that a person is of commercial importance to the airline.'

And if someone refers to you as an SFU, get ready to let the less-cramped times roll, because that, revealed Jay, means Suitable For An Upgrade.

For more from Jay visit www.instagram.com/aflyguytravels and www.facebook.com/aflyguyslounge.