Usher is opening up about the criticism he faced from fans when he tied the knot with Tameka Foster back in 2007.

The 45-year-old singer (born Usher Raymond IV) - who recently brushed off comparisons to Justin Timberlake - was only married to Foster for two years, before they split in 2009.

He opened up in People's cover story about the relationship, which started just a few years after his fan-favorite relationship with TLC's Chilli had ended in 2004.

'I think I became very closed and then felt attacked in many ways,' Usher said of that time in his life.

'It was a bit unconventional in a time when I felt like my female fans were judgmental of the woman that I chose,' he added.

Usher is opening up about the criticism he faced from fans when he tied the knot with Tameka Foster back in 2007

The 45-year-old singer (born Usher Raymond IV) - who recently brushed off comparisons to Justin Timberlake - was only married to Foster for two years, before they split in 2009

The singer still isn't even sure why so many of his fans hated Foster, but he speculates it may have something to do with her being a dark-skinned woman.

'She was a dark-skinned woman, and maybe they didn't want to love her in a way because of maybe some reason that had to do with themselves,' he added.

'I don't know. Or maybe she was not the best reference because of how she handled herself,' he pondered.

'That's not for me to be concerned about. I did my part and what I thought was right,' he clarified.

Usher and Foster shared two children together - 16-year-old son Usher V and 15-year-old son Naviyd - and while they went through a difficult custody battle, they're 'good' with each other, to an extent.

'We are cordial with each other. We ain't good, good, but we good. You know what I'm saying?' he said.

'It's an 18 year process of which we all understand that, and we're doing our best to raise two responsible, respectful, and happy children,' he added.

Just days after his Super Bowl halftime show, Usher is brushing off longtime comparisons to Justin Timberlake.

The singer still isn't even sure why so many of his fans hated Foster, but he speculates it may have something to do with her being a dark-skinned woman

'She was a dark-skinned woman, and maybe they didn't want to love her in a way because of maybe some reason that had to do with themselves,' he added

Usher and Foster shared two children together - 16-year-old son Usher V and 15-year-old son Naviyd - and while they went through a difficult custody battle, they're 'good' with each other, to an extent

The 45-year-old Dallas native and the 43-year-old Memphis native have long drawn comparisons to one another.

They both rose to fame at roughly the same time on the strength of their smooth voices though Usher revealed to People he doesn't think they're necessarily 'rivals.'

'I think people more than likely need to find comparisons, but we are all unique artists and have our creativity,' he said.

'I love the producers that he works with, so much so that I worked with them. And I think he loves the producers that I worked with so much so that he worked with them,' Usher admitted.