Travis Kelce suffered a shocking Super Bowl meltdown and shoved his coach Andy Reid, 65, on the sidelines - before being restrained by a worried teammate.

With his girlfriend Taylor Swift watching on from the $1million family suite at Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas, the tight end appeared furious that he did not receive the ball on a play.

Heading back to the bench, Kelce got in the face of his 65-year-old coach, before quickly being pulled away by a teammate.

Approaching from the side, cameras caught Kelce storming towards the coach and bumping into him, causing him to temporarily lose his footing.

Kelce, 34, then grabs his coach's arm as he turns to face him, again screaming in his face - before being pulled away by fellow Chiefs player Jerrod McKinnon.

Travis Kelce screams in the face of coach Andy Reid during an incredible touchline meltdown

Kelce was apoplectic after not being used during the first half of the Super Bowl in Las Vegas

Travis Kelce looked less than enthused pic.twitter.com/yncKhjtNl4 — NFL on CBS 🏈 (@NFLonCBS) February 12, 2024

Taylor Swift reacts during the first half, which included a meltdown from her boyfriend Kelce

Kelce was pulled away from coach Reid by a teammate during a tough start to the big game

Kelce's girlfriend Swift was watching on from the family's $1million suite in the stadium

It was a difficult start for the Kansas City Chiefs, as they went in 10-3 down at halftime, needing a big second-half display to overcome the San Francisco 49ers.

Kelce in particular had an incredibly quiet first half by his lofty standards, with one catch for one yard - and nothing else.

Fans quickly took to social media to comment on the shocking moment, with some Swift fans labeling it a 'red flag' for the singer.

Elsewhere, some NFL fans called it a 'bad look' for the tight end, who is arguably the most famous football star in the planet after a monster season on and off the field.

Incredibly, it is not the first time Kelce has suffered a similar meltdown. On Christmas Day, Kelce had another tete-a-tete with coach Reid, and was spotted slamming his helmet to the floor during a 20-14 loss to the Las Vegas Raiders.

Immediately after, a Chiefs staffer tried giving Kelce a replacement helmet, but he was quickly stopped by coach Reid - clearly worried that would get smashed too.

Swift appeared to be having a great time in the suite - unlike her man on the field below

Kelce takes his helmet off at halftime having only had one catch for one yard in the first half

Kelce walks past coach Reid after screaming in his face during the Super Bowl first half

Travis Kelce LAUNCHED his helmet on the sidelines

pic.twitter.com/igh3Gf6rwS — Footballism (@FootbaIIism) December 25, 2023

At that game, Swift was also in the stands to watch her boyfriend - but he was seemingly feeling a little 'Bah Humbug' despite the festive occasion.

On Sunday, Kelce had his entire family in a VIP suite that he personally paid over $1million for - with the most notable guest, Swift, flying all the way from Tokyo for the game.

Swift was performing a fourth Eras Tour show in Japan on Saturday night, where she then hot-footed it straight to a private jet at the airport to get back to America.

Kelce also argued with San Francisco 49ers opponents during a feisty first half in Vegas

In a bid to calm down, Kelce sits on the Chiefs bench with the team 10-3 down in the big game

She then spent Saturday night at her home in LA, before boarding another jet to Vegas in time for the big game on Sunday afternoon.

Travis' brother Jason was also present with his wife Kelce, while their mom Donna and dad Ed were also both there.

Swift's parents Scott and Andrea joined the group in the box, while Taylor brought some friends too - including Blake Lively and Ice Spice.

NFL commissioner Roger Goodell also made an appearance in the box before the game, and was spotted deep in conversation with Swift.