Margot Robbie had a busy evening as attended a whopping three A-list events around London on Saturday evening.

The Barbie star, 33, stunned in a black sequinned mini dress as party hopped around the capital with husband Tom Ackerley.

First she attended a star-studded Oscars bash at the swanky Dorchester Hotel before hot footing it over to the National Gallery for a reception to honour BAFTA nominees.

Finally she joined the likes of Emily Blunt at the Charles Finch and Chanel pre-BAFTAs dinner party at the Hertford Street Club.

Due to the downpour Margot layered her look with a long leather trench before removing it to showcase her sparkly frock which hugged every inch of her sensational figure.

TMargot Robbie had a busy evening as attended a whopping three A-list events around London on Saturday evening (pictured with husband Tom Ackerley)

The Barbie star stunned in a black sequinned mini dress as party hopped around the capital

Margot is in London ahead of Sunday's BAFTAs which sees Oppenheimer set to sweep the board after receiving 13 nominations.

Christopher Nolan's epic biopic about atomic bomb creator J Robert Oppenheimer dominated the main categories when nominations were announced on Thursday, with nods for Best Film and for Nolan in Best Director.

In comparison, Oppenheimer's box office rival Barbie received just five nominations and was notably snubbed in the Best Film category.

Cillian Murphy, 47, received his first ever BAFTA nomination for his portrayal of titular character Oppenheimer and will go head-to-head with fellow Irishman Barry Keoghan, 31, for Saltburn in the Best Actor category.

Oppenheimer could see Nolan pick up his first ever Director BAFTA.

He faces competition from All Of Us Strangers director Andrew Haigh, Anatomy Of A Fall's Justine Triet, The Holdovers' Alexander Payne, Maestro's Cooper and Jonathan Glazer for The Zone Of Interest.

Notably absent from the category is Barbie's director Greta Gerwig, while the movie - which was the highest-grossing film of 2023 - was also snubbed for Best Film.

Under the new rules, the director longlist had equal numbers of male and female filmmakers, but there is only one woman among the six best-director nominees, Triet.

First she attended a star-studded Oscars bash at the swanky Dorchester Hotel (pictured)

At the Oscar bash Margot (L) caught up with her Barbie director Greta Gerwig (R)

She then hot footed it over to the National Gallery for a reception to honour BAFTA nominees (pictured)

Finally she joined the likes of Emily Blunt at the Charles Finch and Chanel pre-BAFTAs dinner party at the Hertford Street Club (pictured)

Despite her busy night Margot flashed a huge smile

Gerwig is, however, recognised in the Original Screenplay category alongside her husband and co-writer Noah Baumbach.

Barbie star Margot Robbie is up for Best Actress and will compete in a category that notably excludes Killers of the Flower Moon's Lily Gladstone, despite her awards season success so far. The Scorsese epic received nine nods in total.

The remaining Best Actress nominees are against Poor Things' Emma Stone, Maestro's Carey Mulligan, Anatomy Of A Fall's Sandra Huller, The Colour Purple's Fantasia Barrino and Rye Lane's Vivian Oparah.

German actress Huller is also nominated in a second category, and will battle it out for Supporting Actress for The Zone Of Interest, alongside Oppenheimer's Blunt, Saltburn's Rosamund Pike, The Holdovers' Da'Vine Joy Randolph, The Colour Purple's Danielle Brooks and All Of Us Strangers' Claire Foy.

Oppenheimer's Downey Jr, will be hoping to continue his winning streak after being nominated in the Supporting Actor category. He has already won a Golden Globe and a Critics Choice award for his performance as Lewis Strauss, the chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission.