At the People's Choice Awards 2024, the stars of the Real Housewives of Beverly Hills put their drama aside and reunited.

Kyle Richards, 55, was all smiles as she posed on the red carpet with her older sister Kathy Hilton, 64, even though they had been in the throes of a nasty feud on the most recent season of their series.

They were joined by their co-stars Garcelle Beauvais, 57, Erika Jayne, 52, Crystal Kung Minkoff, 41, and newcomer Annemarie Wiley, 40.

Dorit Kemsley, 47, and Sutton Stracke, 52, were seen on the seating chart but were not spotted in attendance with their castmates on the red carpet.

Together, the group are competing for the best reality show of the year at the 49th annual award ceremony held at the Barker Hangar in Santa Monica, California on Sunday.

At the People's Choice Awards 2024 , the stars of the Real Housewives of Beverly Hills put their drama aside and reunited. Kyle Richards , 55, was all smiles as she posed on the red carpet with her older sister Kathy Hilton , 64, even though they had been in the throes of a nasty feud on the most recent season of their series

They were joined by their co-stars Annemarie Wiley, 40, Garcelle Beauvais, 57, Crystal Kung Minkoff, 41, and Erika Jayne, 52

Richards and Hilton appeared to be on good terms as they posed for photos together and flashed their identical, bright smiles.

For the annual award ceremony, Richards dressed to impress as she modeled a very low-cut, metallic green minidress with a long, floor-sweeping train.

She left her straight, brunette hair down and rocked a sultry makeup look to highlight her sharp features.

At her side, Hilton looked dazzling in an all-white, monochromatic ensemble.

She wore a crisp white top with a feathered shawl and sheer, lace pants.

She completed her look with a pair of pointed-toe pumps, layers of silver chains and a leather purse.

At one point, they joined their co-stars for a dazzling group photo.

Beauvais looked extraordinary in a black, figure-hugging gown with silver polkadots and a chunky statement necklace to wrap the look together.

For the annual award ceremony, Richards dressed to impress as she modeled a very low-cut, metallic green minidress with a long, floor-sweeping train. She wore a pair of nude sandal heels to complete her look

She left her straight, brunette hair down and rocked a sultry makeup look to highlight her sharp features.

She also sported metallic silver pumps and a matching clutch purse in her hands, cloaked in black leather gloves.

Minkoff wore a slinky, gray jumpsuit with a plunging, low-V neckline and threw her raven black tresses up in a chic ponytail.

Jayne showed off her thin frame in a black minidress with a straight neckline and fancy opera gloves to match.

Wiley looked stunning in a red, satin high-low dress adorned with dramatic ruffles and featuring a plunging neckline.

Over the years, the Richards sisters have had many fallouts and reconciliations. Most recently, the

In December 2022, Hilton said that she and Richards have not spoken to one another in 'a while'.

They were pictured together at an event together several months later but were 'still not speaking'.

Last summer, they reunited at Kim's daughter Whitney's bridal shower.

Their castmates also joined her in equally dazzling looks

At her side, Hilton looked dazzling in an all-white, monochromatic ensemble. She wore a crisp white top with a feathered shawl and sheer, lace pants. She completed her look with a pair of pointed-toe pumps, layers of silver chains and a leather purse

The following month, Hilton announced her exit from the Bravo show.

During a rare sit-down interview with all three sisters, Kim revealed that Richards has been keeping to herself amid her marital issues and separation from Mauricio Umansky.

The debut episode of season 13 premiered in October 2023, and the forthcoming three-part reunion has not yet received a release date.

The 49th annual People's Choice Awards are taking place at the Barker Hangar in Santa Monica, California.

Barbie and Oppenheimer AKA 'Barbenheimer' has ruled award season and tonight's show is no exception as they earned the most nods in the movie categories.

Margot Robbie and Ryan Reynolds flick is the top nominee with nine nominations including individual nods for the two leading stars.

Meanwhile, Christopher Nolan directed Oppenheimer follows behind with six including recognitions for Cillian Murphy and Florence Pugh.

Barbie and Oppenheimer AKA 'Barbenheimer' has ruled award season and tonight's show is no exception as they earned the most nods in the movie categories

Two weeks after her record breaking run at the Grammy Awards Taylor Swift leads all musicians wife five nominations.

She was nominated for a range of categories including for her songs, social media presence, and even her The Eras Tour concert film which was a massive global hit at the box office.

Taylor was in interesting company as rapper Nicki Minaj and country musicians Luke Combs and Morgan Wallen also earned five nods.

When it comes to television Only Murders In The Building earned the most nominations including recognitions for Selena Gomez, Meryl Streep, and Steve Martin.

The reality show of the year category will be especially interesting as Vanderpump Rules will be the favorite coming off of the Scandoval scandal as it will be facing heavy competition including from Hulu's The Kardashians.

The event will be hosted by Marvel Cinematic Universe star Simu Liu who is best known for his roles in sitcom Kim’s Convenience as well as in Marvel’s Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings.

He also portrayed one of the several Kens in the aforementioned $1.4billion blockbuster Barbie.

As hosting during award season has been a major talking point, the 34-year-old Chinese-Canadian actor told USA Today: 'It’s not about slandering anyone.

Two weeks after her record breaking run at the Grammy Awards Taylor Swift leads all musicians wife five nominations; she is pictured in March 2023

When it comes to television Only Murders In The Building earned the most nominations including recognitions for Selena Gomez, Meryl Streep (pictured), and Steve Martin

The event will be hosted by Marvel Cinematic Universe star Simu Liu (pictured in January) who is best known for his roles in sitcom Kim’s Convenience as well as in Marvel’s Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings

'It’s not about getting the most offensive joke that you can possibly get away with. It’s not about being the guy that’s cutting other people down.'

The event will also see major presenters including musicians Victoria Monet and Kane Brown.

Kylie Minogue, Lainey Wilson and Lenny Kravitz are also set to perform on the telecast.

NBC and E! will air a two-hour live telecast of the 2024 People’s Choice Awards ceremony on on Sunday, Feb. 18, at 8 p.m. ET. The show can also be streamed on Peacock.