Gisele Bündchen has been caught on camera in a passionate embrace with her jiu-jitsu instructor boyfriend Joaquim Valente - finally cementing her relationship with the fitness trainer while they enjoyed a Valentine's Day date in Miami.

In video footage obtained exclusively by DailyMail.com the 43-year-old supermodel and ex-wife of NFL star Tom Brady was seen embracing Joaquim in the street as they strolled around the upscale neighborhood where she lives.

The pair reached what appeared to be Joaquim's car, at which point the handsome martial arts teacher wrapped an arm around Gisele, who was clutching onto her dog's leash.

The model, whose divorce from the NFL superstar was finalized in October 2022, reciprocated by draping herself around his neck as she leaned in to exchange several kisses before they pulled apart.

Gisele Bündchen has been spotted sharing a loving kiss with her boyfriend Joaquim Valente in a video exclusively obtained by DailyMail.com

The supermodel and Joaquim — pictured in 2021 —are believed to have been dating for over a year

The pair have been pictured enjoying activities such as paddle boarding together over the past year - pictured in together in Miami in May 2023

The pair have reportedly been dating 'for well over a year' - but Gisele has yet to publicly address their romance, despite frequently being pictured with the instructor.

Rumors of a relationship started to swirl when Joaquim was pictured holidaying with Gisele and her children in Costa Rica just two weeks after her divorce from Tom . They have also enjoyed trips to their native Brazil together.

Page Six was the first to report that the pair were an item, after sharing photos from a night out in November 2022 and branding Joaquim as her 'new man.'

But insiders have persistently attempted to quash the 'love' talk, with the model herself deflecting when asked about the alleged romance during an interview with Vanity Fair last March.

'I think, at this point, unfortunately, because I’m divorced, I’m sure that they’re going to try to attach me to anything,' she told the publication of the rumors.

She went on to lavish praise on Joaquim and his brothers Pedro and Gui, who run the Valente Brothers Jiu-Jitsu studio with him.

She continued: 'I’m so grateful to know all of them, because not only have they helped me and helped my kids, but they have become great friends, and Joaquim especially.

'He’s our teacher and, most importantly, he’s a person that I admire and that I trust. It’s so good to have that kind of energy, to have my kids around that type of energy.'

The supermodel and her jiu-jitsu instructor were seen embracing in her Miami neighborhood as they prepared to part ways

The model has previously deflected when asked about rumors of their romance

Gisele originally took her children to Joaquim's studio in the hope that they could learn some self-defense skills (pictured in 2021)

However, the model soon found herself asking for lessons of her own - and the pair have clearly grown closer over the years

Joaquim has joined Gisele and her children on several trips to Costa Rica and even to their home country of Brazil. The pair were pictured in December with her family

Last month, the legendary beauty told Harper's Bazaar that she originally took her children to Joaquim's studio in the hope that they could learn some self-defense skills, though she soon wanted lessons of her own

But it's not just jiu-jitsu that the pair have been enjoying together. They were pictured paddle boarding and horse riding with her family in Costa Rica last May.

Gisele was in New York City on Monday night to celebrate her second campaign with the denim label Frame for its Fashion Week.

She jetted back to Miami and was seen taking her German Shepherd for a walk on Tuesday.

Meanwhile, Joaquim is sure to have been a source of comfort to the model after the recent loss of her mother, Vania Nonnenmacher, on January 28.

Gisele recently opened up about her healing journey in the wake of her death, at the age of 75, following a battle with cancer.

Last week the mother-of-two shared an image of herself standing on a balcony and watching the sunset peaking through the clouds, alongside a moving quote from Ecuadorian author Yung Pueblo.

'Personal transformation is not easy,' the inspirational message began. 'Healing yourself takes time. Letting go can sometimes feel overwhelming.'

The emotional caption also touched on how 'building new habits can seem like an uphill battle.'

Rumors of the relationship spread soon after the supermodel and her ex-husband Tom Brady announced their divorce in October 2022 (pictured together in 2019)

Tom and Gisele share 11-year-old daughter Vivian Lake and son Benjamin, 1. He also has 16-year-old son Jack with ex-girlfriend Bridget Moynahan; all three recently pictured

She told her followers that 'with all of these challenges inner-work is worth it,' adding: 'This active form of self-love can radically change your life.'

Gisele is one of six girls, including her twin Patricia and sisters Rafaela, Graziela, Gabriela and Raquel.

Following the news of her mom's passing, she shared an emotional Instagram tribute, which began with her admitting that it 'hurts to know that' she 'won’t be able to hug' her 'beloved mom' anymore.

'But I know that you will always be watching over us,' she wrote. 'You were an angel on earth, always helping everyone around you.'

'I am so grateful to be your daughter and to have learned from you. Thank you for being the best role model of love, strength, compassion, courage, and grace.'

Gisele opened up about her healing journey in the wake of her mother Vania Nonnenmacher's recent death, at the age of 75, after a battle with cancer

Gisele lost her mother Vânia Nonnenmacher on January 28

The message continued: 'I will forever cherish the beautiful memories we shared and will live by the values you taught me.'

Gisele - who shares son Benjamin, 14, and daughter Vivian, 11, with ex-husband Tom - added: 'You will live forever through the many lives that you touched.'

Referencing her sisters, she noted in the caption: 'Thank you for giving me five best friends for life. Your love will always guide us.'

It ended: 'I will see you in my dreams. Love you.'

DailyMail.com has reached out to representatives for Gisele for comment.