A diehard fan miraculously scored a ticket to Taylor Swift's Eras Tour concert after an act of goodwill from a punter who had to leave the concert early.

In a video shared on TikTok, one of the thousands of ticketless fans who waited outside the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG) managed to get into the concert thanks to the kind Swiftie.

The short clip shows stunned fans watching the concert goer send the ticket to the fan, before they hug and the woman runs into the venue.

According to the comments, the exchange happened towards the end of the three-hour concert during the final Midnights Era of the show.

In the background 'Vigilante S**t' can be heard playing.

A diehard fan miraculously scored a ticket to Taylor Swift 's Eras Tour concert after an act of goodwill from a punter who had to leave the concert early

In a video shared on TikTok , one of the thousands of ticketless fans who waited outside the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG) managed to get into the concert thanks to the kind Swiftie

The TikTok user who took the video wrote: 'A diehard fan has miraculously scored a ticket to Taylor Swift's Eras Tour concert after an act of goodwill from a punter who had to leave the concert early.'

In the comments, the Swiftie behind the kind act commented: 'Punter praised for kind act during Eras Tour, with users commending her for the kind act.

'Punter praised for kind act during Eras Tour,' one wrote.

The short clip shows stunned fans watching the concert goer send the ticket to the fan, before they hug and the woman runs into the venue

Swftie's kind act to diehard fan. Picture: TikTok

Swftie's kind act to diehard fan. Picture: TikTok

'BLESS YOUR SOUL!! GOOD THINGS ARE HEADED YOUR WAY,' shared another.

'You're a gem. This was so incredibly sweet!!'

With three shows slated for Melbourne this weekend, thousands of fans who missed out on tickets gathered outside the MCG singing and dancing to Swift's hits.

The international trend has garnered the term 'Taylor-gating,' despite warnings from the MCG urging fans to only attend the venue if they have ticketholders.

Ahead of the concert on February 6, the venue said there would be 'no activations' in Yarra Park or live screening of the show, and reminded fans of the rules against drinking and setting up tents, marquees or BBQs.

Swift mania will then hit Sydney the weekend after, with the pop star set to perform at four shows from Friday, February 23 to Monday February 26.

With three shows slated for Melbourne this weekend , thousands of fans who missed out on tickets gathered outside the MCG singing and dancing to Swift's hits