Jim Biden used his brother's name and White House connections to help back a rural healthcare provider that landed jobs for three Biden family members, insiders revealed.

An email obtained by Politico from a person close to Americore, a healthcare company that has been accused in $100million Medicare fraud case, revealed that Jim used his brother's clout as vice president to advance the company.

Jim worked as a consultant for Americore in 2017 after his brother served eight years as vice president.

Former executives from Americore also told Politico that Jim had also planned for Joe to serve on the board and suggested his brother could promote the company during a future presidential run, according to the report.

Sources also said that Jim used his relationship with his older brother to pursue deals and make pitches that rewarded the company with funds for drug rehab, cancer treatments and lab testing.

The shocking report is the latest alleging inappropriate behaviors by the Biden family. It comes as the president faces an impeachment investigation about the family's business dealings.

An investigation by Politico found that Jim Biden used President Joe Biden's name to back Americore. P

In response to the accusations and findings, a spokesperson for the president told Politico that they 'are not able to participate in this story at this time'

Politico went on to report that Jim offered to secure funds from investors in the Middle East to fund Americore's expansion.

The expected funds did not arrive and led to the downfall of the healthcare company, which left bills unpaid and patients untreated. The company also remains under investigation, accused of $100million in Medicare fraud.

At least three of the president's relatives were also employed by Americore, including Jim's wife Sara and his son Jamie, Politico reported.

Hunter Biden was also found to have met with the company's CEO and his personal physician, Kevin O'Connor. The two joined in on a meeting with Jim and the president of the hospital, according to documents reviewed by Politico.

It is unclear what roles the family members played in the company, as none of them answered questions related to the topic. The White House also didn't respond for comment, Politico said.

Jim's attorney, Paul Fishman, said in a statement that his client 'conducted himself ethically and honorably in all his business dealings.' Jim has not been charged with criminal wrongdoing.

Former executives from Americore also told Politico that Jim had also planned for Joe to serve on the board and suggested his brother could promote the company during a future presidential run, according to the report

Jim has not been charged with criminal wrongdoing and last year, he repaid Americore $350,000 to settle a lawsuit - though his lawyers said he played no role in the company's demise

In response to the accusations and findings, a spokesperson for the president told Politico that they 'are not able to participate in this story at this time.'

Americore imploded in 2019 and filed for bankruptcy amid a pile of lawsuits and a federal investigation into fraud allegations. Americore also accused Jim Biden of failing to repay $600,000 in loans.

According to Politico, the investigation did not find that the president directly involved himself in the fraud, but 'did benefit indirectly from his brother's work with the firm.'

The outlet went on to say that on the same day that Jim received a $200,000 Ameicore payment, he made a check out to his brother Joe.

In response, the White House said that the check was to pay off a loan, but did not respond when asked if the president knew of his brother's income from the company or the specifics of the said loan payment.

'I was told that Americore was going to be the salvation of rural hospitals,' one former executive told Politico.

'The whole thing was a scam, and it didn’t take that long to figure it out.'

Last year, Jim repaid Americore $350,000 to settle the lawsuit - though his lawyers said he played no role in the company's demise and that he had received the money for consulting work, not loans, as Americore Trustee Carol Fox alleged as the trustee.

According to one source familiar with the interview, Fox identified no services rendered by James to Americore - and that Americore provided a 'loan' to him with no documentation in return for a promise of funding from the Middle East that never came.

According to Politico, the investigation did not find that the president directly involved himself in the fraud, but 'did benefit indirectly from his brother's work with the firm'

Hunter Biden was also found to have met with the company's CEO and his personal physician, Kevin O'Connor. The two joined in on a meeting with Jim and the president of the hospital, according to documents reviewed by Politico

A patient in one of the company's hospitals, located in Southern Kentucky, died of cardiac arrest in 2018 after staff dwindled, along with medical supplies due to the alleged scheme, Politico reported.

Employees at that hospital were also found to have lost health insurance after Americore suddenly stopped paying for the benefit, Politico found.

The Justice Department then found that Ellwood City Hospital in Pennsylvania, under Americore , entered into several service agreements and paid kickbacks involved with 'medically unnecessary lab tests' the the hospital shipped out, according to Politico.

Documents also revealed that Jim assisted the company in getting medical approval to obtain the hospital in Pennsylvania. Email reviewed by Politico also showed that Jim fired the medical company's CFO.

Republicans leading the investigation into the Biden family's 'influence peddling scheme' that is the center of their impeachment inquiry into the president, say this personal check directly shows Joe was aware of - and included in - his family's dealings.