Kylie Jenner showed off her figure wearing a skintight ensemble while promoting her clothing brand, Khy, in a new Instagram post uploaded on Saturday.

The TV personality, 26 - who recently went topless underneath a fur jacket for a sultry Valentine's Day post - modeled the piece to celebrate a limited restock of items from her first collection.

The Drop 001 was in collaboration with the Berlin-based brand called, Namilia, and contained a total of 12 items made of a black, vegan leather material.

Jenner could be seen donning a long-sleeved, faux leather minidress with a hem that stopped inches above her knees and is currently priced at $128, per the official website.

She slipped into a pair of open-toed, black heels and also added black, Moto gloves from the brand which are sold out.

Kylie Jenner, 26, showed off her figure wearing a skintight ensemble while promoting her clothing brand, Khy, in a new Instagram post uploaded on Saturday

Her long locks were parted to the side, and effortlessly flowed down past her shoulders in light waves.

Kylie's makeup was glammed up for the photo session, and comprised of a layer of mascara to her lashes as well as a light shadow around her eyes.

A warm blush and contour was added to better accentuate her cheekbones, while a nude-colored tint was worn on her lips for a finishing touch.

The mother-of-two stood in front of a black backdrop to coincide with the color scheme of the collection - which initially dropped late last year on November 1.

The caption of the post simply read, 'the LBD that sold out within minutes. available now in limited quantities.'

Shortly after Khy became available to consumers, it was reported that the company has already garnered a whopping $1 million in sales, selling out of items such as the faux leather trench coat as well as the Moto gloves.

Along with the minidress, other items that have been restocked include the $118 faux leather cropped jacket, the $52 seamless long-sleeved shirt and $58 seamless leggings.

Earlier this week, Kylie modeled the hooded, cropped jacket to announce that some items from Drop 001 have been restocked in 'limited quantities.'

Earlier this week, Kylie modeled the hooded, cropped jacket to announce that some items from Drop 001 have been restocked in 'limited quantities'

Along with the minidress, other items that have been restocked include the $118 faux leather cropped jacket, the $52 seamless long-sleeved shirt and $58 seamless leggings

At the time of Khy's launch in November 2023, the reality star opened up to Vogue about the brand. 'I want people to know how completely involved I am in this.'

'From original concept, to designing, or co-designing if we're working with other designers, from picking fabrics, colors, I've been in every fit meeting. I am the creative director of the brand and marketing.'

The beauty added, 'There's not an Instagram post or video that hasn't been personally edited by me, there hasn't been an Instagram post that I haven't posted myself.'

While also talking to Elle around the time the first collection dropped, Jenner opened up about what had inspired to start her own clothing brand.

'I felt like it was the perfect time [in my life]. I was having kids, and it's always been a dream of mine to have a fashion line, especially one like this.'

Kylie has been keeping busy and recently took to her main Instagram page on Wednesday to flaunt her stylish look for Valentine's Day.

She showed off her toned midriff by going topless while donning a brown, fuzzy jacket that was partially fastened at the front.

The star additionally slipped into a pair of low-waisted, baggy pants as well as closed-toed, black shoes.

At the time of Khy's launch in November 2023, the reality star opened up to Vogue about the brand. 'I want people to know how completely involved I am in this'

Kylie has been keeping busy and recently took to her main Instagram page on Wednesday to flaunt her stylish look for Valentine's Day

Later in the day, Jenner took a selfie while sitting inside a vehicle to give a close-up glimpse of her makeup look for the special day

The media personality completed the look by wearing a pair of black-rimmed glasses and easily carried a blue and red-colored duffle bag over her shoulder.

In the caption of the carousel of snaps, The Kardashians star simply penned to her fans and followers, 'happy vday.'

Later in the day, Jenner - who is currently dating actor Timothee Chalamet - took a selfie while sitting inside a vehicle to give a close-up glimpse of her makeup look for the special day.

Kylie additionally showed off her cooking skills in the kitchen by making homemade cinnamon rolls for the first time - with her daughter Stormi also lending a helping hand.

The TV personality shares her six-year-old daughter as well as son Aire, two, with ex and rapper Travis Scott.

Kylie additionally showed off her cooking skills in the kitchen by making homemade cinnamon rolls for the first time - with her daughter Stormi also lending a helping hand

She took her followers through the steps and then shared an image of the rolls covered in clear, plastic wrap to set overnight before baking

Over Valentine's Day, her beau Timothee Chalamet was seen spending time in London while promoting his latest film Dune: Part 2 - which hits theaters next month on March 1; seen in London on Thursday

She took her followers through the steps and then shared an image of the rolls covered in clear, plastic wrap to set overnight before baking.

'first time making cinnamon rolls from scratch i can't wait to bake them in the morning,' the beauty mogul typed out in text added above the tasty treats.

Jenner later showed her fans the baked cinnamon rolls that were covered in a sugary icing before diving in to enjoy.

Over Valentine's Day, her beau Timothee Chalamet was seen spending time in London while promoting his latest film Dune: Part 2 - which hits theaters next month on March 1.