Robert Irwin and and his girlfriend Rorie Buckey have announced their split after almost two years of dating.

The pair made the shock announcement in a joint statement shared to Rorie's Instagram Story on Saturday morning.

'We wanted to share that we have decided to go our separate ways but profoundly appreciate all the time spent together and wish one another all the very best into the future,' the statement read.

'We wish to express the gratitude and respect we have for one another as we continue our journeys on different paths.

'We won't be commenting further on this, and really appreciate your respect and privacy at this time.'

Robert Irwin and and his girlfriend Rorie Buckey have announced their split after almost two years of dating

Robert, 20, and Rorie, 19, were believed to have been dating since November 2022, but went Instagram official in August 2023.

Prior to that, the pair made their red carpet debut at the Mission: Impossible – Dead Reckoning Part One premiere in Sydney.

The duo were last seen together looking smitten as they jetted out of Melbourne following their appearance at the Australian Open.

At the time, Robert couldn't take his eyes off his girlfriend as the pair waited in the terminal.

The pair made the shock announcement in a joint statement shared to Rorie's Instagram Story on Saturday morning

Robert, 20, and Rorie, 19, were believed to have been dating since November 2022, but went Instagram official in August 2023

Rorie reportedly completed an Irwin-approved 'wildlife warrior boot camp' before she and Robert became an official couple.

In December, Woman's Day claimed that Rorie had to win over the family by having a willingness to get out into nature.

The couple went on crocodile research trip together where they uncovered 'critical data' for the Wildlife Warriors' Worldwide foundation.

Mother Terri and sister Bindi, 25, had been impressed by Rorie's dedication to Australian wildlife.

According to New Idea magazine, Robert was preparing to propose when his girlfriend visited him in Africa while he films I'm A Celebrity

An insider claimed Rorie was 'determined to not let Robert down and show him - and his mum and sister - that she's not just some puff piece. And she blew them away.'

The pair were in a long-distance relationship, with Robert based at Australia Zoo in Queensland while Rorie lives in Perth.

Robert and Rorie, who is the niece of legendary Australian actor Heath Ledger, have plenty in common and both grew up in the public eye after suffering the devastating loss of a family member.

Heath was at the top of his Hollywood career when he was found dead in January 2008 following an accidental prescription drug overdose.

Robert's father Steve Irwin, known to the world as the 'Crocodile Hunter', died aged 44 on September 4, 2006, after being pierced in the chest by a stingray.

The duo were last seen together looking smitten as they jetted out of Melbourne following their appearance at the Australian Open

Rorie and Robert at the Semi Final singles match between Coco Gauff and Aryna Sabalenka during the 2024 Australian Open

In November, Robert opened up about his 'amazing' girlfriend on Nova's Fitzy and Wippa with Kate Ritchie.

The Wildlife Warrior expressed his joy regarding his relationship after host Michael 'Wippa' Wipfli brought up the topic.

'I feel like life is amazing right now and [I'm] very, very happy,' said Robert.

Following the discussion about his sister Bindi, Wippa called the relationship 'great news' then asked how serious the young zookeeper was about Buckey on a scale of 1 to 10: 'is it a 10?'

Robert then gave a heartwarming answer: 'Love is not a numbers game. You just feel it.'

Robert and Rorie recently travelled to Canada and the US together

The pair often shared hearfelt captions and comments on each other's Instagram posts

Robert and Rorie, who is the niece of legendary Australian actor Heath Ledger, have plenty in common and both grew up in the public eye after suffering the devastating loss of a family member

It was rumoured Robert was preparing to pop the question to his girlfriend.

According to New Idea magazine, he could have proposed when his girlfriend visited him in Africa while he films I'm A Celebrity.

'Everyone is convinced he is aiming to pop the question when they're in Africa,' an insider said.

'Robert is crazy about her and is planning something unforgettable when he formally proposes. They both know it is part of their plans so he's been dreaming up special ways to make it a surprise.'

The source went on to say Robert and Rorie were taking their relationship 'very serious' and had been planning a future together.

'They have talked about where to live and even how big they want their family to be,' they added.