She was also previously rumored to be dating heartthrob Bradley Cooper

Huma Abedin caused quite the stir this week after going public with her billionaire beau Alex Soros - who is nearly 10 years her junior - but it is not the first time her romantic endeavors have been thrust into the spotlight.

Hilary Clinton's longtime aide, 47, took to Instagram on Wednesday to share a snap of herself and Alex, 38, enjoying a dinner date at a restaurant in Paris.

The image showed the pair cuddling up in a corner booth behind a table strewn with red roses and gifts - with the playboy adding a 'Happy Valentine's Day' message above their heads.

The romance between the pair comes seven years after Huma divorced her former husband Anthony Weiner - who was engulfed in a number of high-profile scandals.

Huma Abedin caused quite the stir this week after going public with her billionaire beau Alex Soros - who is nearly 10 years her junior

But it is not the first time the romantic endeavors of Hilary Clinton's longtime aide have been thrust into the spotlight

Weiner was caught on multiple occasions sending explicit snaps to various women - even during his political campaigns.

But he failed to learn from his missteps and was later sentenced to 21 months in prison after he began sexting a 15-year-old girl.

Huma, who had initially stood by him, eventually decided to pull the plug and the pair went their separate ways.

She was later rumored to be dating Bradley Cooper for a short spell before seemingly confirming her romance this week with Alex - who was recently named as the heir to his father's $25 billion empire.

Here, FEMAIL has dished on Huma's turbulent love life.

Huma's ex-husband was disgraced politician Anthony Weiner who was sentenced to 21 months in prison for sexting an underage girl

Huma's most high-profile - and perhaps most turbulent - relationship was with Anthony Weiner.

She and the then congressman started dating in 2007 before tying the knot in 2010 and welcoming son Jordan the next year.

'When I met him, he was this dynamic, brilliant, smart, public servant, and I did find him captivating, as I detail in the book,' Huma told the Tamron Hall Show in 2021. 'We sort of accidentally fell in love. He was my best friend, and that's why I write the lines in the book: "When I was with him, I thought nothing bad could happen to me."

'He really was a protector, a provider. He was deeply loyal to people and causes he cared about, and that's what I fell in love with.'

But the course of the relationship was far from smooth.

Huma's most high-profile - and perhaps most turbulent - relationship was with disgraced politician Anthony Weiner

The trouble began in May 2011 when, while serving as a Democratic congressman from New York, Weiner was caught sending a sexually explicit photo.

He accidentally shared the image on his Twitter feed, now known as X, instead of sending it as a direct message to a woman he had been flirting with on the platform.

Weiner initially denied sending the photo for several days and claimed it was the work of a hacker.

But he later held a press conference in which he admitted to sending that - and others - to 'about' six women over the previous three years.

However, the following month another explicit photo of Weiner was leaked, leading to his resignation from Congress at the end of June.

Huma decided to stick by him and has since spoken out to explain why she did not regret staying loyal to her husband despite his lurid behavior.

In 2011, Weiner accidentally tweeted a crotch-shot of himself in his underwear to the public on his official page

Shortly after the Twitter photo scandal, Weiner announced that he was resigning from Congress

She told Hall that her loyalty needed to be viewed in the context of the time.

'We were newlyweds. I had just discovered I was pregnant. I was carrying his child. I wasn't even 12 weeks pregnant,' she recalled. 'I mean, we were living this sort of amazing life. He was my first love. He was the first man I had ever been with.

'And the shock when the first scandal broke was such that I did not understand what was going on. I did not understand what he was struggling with. Now, sure, all these years later it's a different story.'

Weiner kept a relatively low profile until another misdeed came to light in July 2013 while running for mayor of New York City during his return to politics.

He was leading in the polls when a 22-year-old, from Indiana, named Sydney Leathers shared explicit photos and messages he sent her using the alias 'Carlos Danger.'

Despite calls that he drop out of the mayoral race, he held a press conference where he announced his plans to remain with Huma, who was caught up in the middle of the media circus, at his side.

She told reporters: 'I have forgiven him, I believe in him... I made that decision. That was a decision I made for me, for our son, and for my family.'

Despite calls that he drop out of the mayoral race in 2013, he held a press conference where he announced his plans to remain with Huma, who was caught up in the middle of the media circus, at his side

Elaborating further to Hall, the mom-of-one said: 'The reason I stood with him at that press conference, and it's a decision even today I can't say I regret — because I not only encouraged him to run for office, we had a conversation about it and I felt like I owed it... it was my responsibility, that I encouraged him to run.'

He lost the election - earning just 4.9 per cent of the vote.

But Weiner's misdeeds were far from over.

In August 2016, the New York Post reported that Weiner had sexted another woman, this time sending an explicit photo of himself while his son - then aged four - was lying on the bed next to him.

This proved to be the final straw for Huma - and the pair announced their plans to separate the very next day.

Not only did that mark the end of the couple's marriage, according to Huma, but she also had to persuade New York state's Administration for Children's Services (ACS) to let her keep her son after the photo sparked an investigation.

In August 2016, the New York Post reported that Weiner had sexted another woman, this time sending an explicit photo of himself while his son - then aged four - was lying on the bed next to him

The following month DailyMail.com revealed that he was sexting a 15-year-old girl before his electronic devices - including his laptop - were seized as part of the investigation

Weiner, however, had not learned his lesson.

The following month DailyMail.com revealed that he was sexting a 15-year-old girl before his electronic devices - including his laptop - were seized as part of the investigation.

His laptop contained documents related to the Hillary Clinton email scandal.

Spurned by the discovery of those documents, FBI director James Comey decided to re-open the probe into the Clinton email scandal eleven days before the 2016 presidential election - throughout which Huma was serving as Clinton's close personal advisor.

Clinton said Comey's decision was one of the reasons she lost the election to Donald Trump.

Huma admitted to Hall that she feels partially responsible for Clinton's loss, stating: 'I mean as it relates to the 2016 campaign, I'm going to carry that to my grave.'

Huma wrote about the harrowing experience in a 2021 memoir titled Both/And: A Life in Many Worlds

By 2017, Weiner surrendered to the FBI and agreed to a guilty plea for one charge of transferring obscene material to a minor.

He was sentenced to 21 months in prison, with three years of supervision following his release.

The disgraced politician was put behind bars but was released three months early for good behavior before checking into a half-way house in the Bronx.

Upon his release in May 2019, he was forced to register as a sex offender

Huma wrote about the harrowing experience in a 2021 memoir titled Both/And: A Life in Many Worlds.

In it she revealed that she didn't lost her virginity till she was with Weiner at 32-years-old.

'I had my heart broken, dragged out, stomped on, humiliated. I lived with shame, in shame, for so long,' she told The Cut in a 2021 interview before the release of her memoir, 'In hindsight, I was in extreme trauma.'

Abedin told The Cut that the memoir was the idea of longtime Vogue editor Anna Wintour, adding that the famously icy editor was one of her strongest sources of comfort.

Huma said the fashion icon came to her 'rescue' during the public turmoil caused by Weiner.

The mom-of-one was briefly rumored to be dating Bradley Cooper after Anna Wintour played matchmaker

In July 2022, Huma was reportedly dating Bradley Cooper after being set up by longtime Vogue editor Anna Wintour.

The power couple had been seeing each other for several months in secret, according to Page Six, and even arrived at the Met Gala together in May before parting ways to keep their affair under wraps.

'Anna definitely played matchmaker,' a source told the outlet at the time. 'She's BFFs with Bradley and adores Huma.'

In July 2022, Huma was reportedly dating Bradley Cooper after being set up by longtime Vogue editor Anna Wintour

'Anna definitely played matchmaker,' a source told Page Six at the time. 'She's BFFs with Bradley and adores Huma'

'Bradley has been quietly dating Huma for a few months now, [and] they've been keeping it really quiet,' the insider said.

The source added that Abedin has confided that she was in a relationship, but was keeping the identity of the 'new man' in her life from even them.

'She didn't say who it was. She was keeping it very close to her chest.'

The relationship not only marked a stark difference for Huma but for Bradley too - whose love life had long been engulfed in rumors about models, movie stars, and pop singers.

According to Page Six, Bradley was seeing singer and actress Dianna Agron before he broke it off and shacked up with Huma.

It is not clear when or why Huma's rumored relationship with The Hangover star came to an end.

But the 49-year-old has since been linked to model Gigi Hadid, 28.

Her romance with Alex Soros is the first time she has gone public with a new flame since her divorce

Huma's romance with Alex is the first time that Huma herself has shared a new update about her love life with the public - having kept much of her life under wraps in the years since her divorce from Weiner.

It was during Hillary's failed 2016 run that Huma may well have first been connected to the Soros family - when George was revealed as one of five mega-donors responsible for one in every $17 that had been spent on her campaign.

Indeed, Huma's name has previously been linked with the Soros clan when it was revealed in 2016 that she had exchanged emails with another member of Hillary's campaign team about a dinner that the then-Presidential candidate was having with George.

In June 2023, Alexander was named as the official heir to George Soros' Open Society Foundations (OSF) in a shock decision that saw him usurp his older brother

'I'm more political,' Alex said at the time, when comparing himself to his father - having visited the White House 14 times in just a year

In the email, Huma asked Robby Mook, who would eventually go on to run Hillary's campaign, how she should proceed if George asked Hillary to appear at a fundraiser for America Votes, a progressive organization that he supported heavily.

Robby then replied: 'I would only do this for political reasons (ie to make Soros happy).'

For years, the son of billionaire financier George Soros was known as a Hamptons rich kid who threw lavish parties, picked up models and befriended NBA legends.

His flamboyant lifestyle and untamed antics earned him a reputation as something of a 'playboy.'

Alex was even once described as an 'embarrassment' within his famous family, standing in sharp contrast to his father's fierce dedication to personal privacy and his long-standing image as a serious and respected philanthropist and businessman.

For years, Alex (pictured with Usher) was known as a Hamptons rich kid who threw lavish parties, picked up models and befriended NBA legends

Models Chanel Iman (left) and Najah Wakil (right) have also been snapped alongside the billionaire heir

So when Alex, now 38, was named as the successor and heir to his father's $25 billion empire, the news certainly raised some eyebrows - particularly among those who knew the former wildchild as nothing more than a party-loving rich kid.

His ascent to the head of George's Open Society Foundations (OSF) was seen as something of a shock decision, particularly as it saw him usurp his older - and much more serious - brother Jonathan in a corporate battle that many likened to the HBO series Succession.

But ahead of the June 2023 announcement, Alex had slowly been working on transforming his image from that of a playboy to a political power player - swapping parties with celebrities for pow wows with people of serious influence, including Barack Obama, Nancy Pelosi, and Joe Biden.