One woman's infuriating act on an overnight flight drew the ire of several passengers around her - but people seeing an account of the incident have been shocked no-one confronted her over 'selfish' behaviour.

An American traveller said she was on a stressful red-eye flight and the person in the next seat plugged in a bright and flashing phone charger.

The clear wire contained flashing rainbow lights that went off in rapid succession for the entire duration of the flight.

After sharing a clip of the act and calling it 'mildly infuriating' on Reddit, the woman said she now regretted not having offered the passenger her plain white charger to use instead.

'I just wore my hood up and over my head and endured - the upright seat was more annoying to me anyhow,' she said in the post.

An American traveller recently revealed that she was on a stressful red-eye flight where her seat-mate decided to plug in a bright and flashing phone charger

Disputes over airplane etiquette - from pregnant women demanding better seats, to a woman who caused outrage by painting her nails on board, which lead to the strong smell of the polish filling the cabin - often provoke strong reactions from those of us who have experienced similar frustrations.

In this incident, many were shocked by the charger woman's gall, a few pointing out that the flashing lights also had the potential to have triggered another passenger's epilepsy.

'Some people are literally the inverse to social anxiety and it really shows,' one said.

'Empathy is a curse. Why was I born with the ability to consider others when it feels like 99 per cent of the world's population doesn't give a sh*t,' another noted.

'Why would someone own that? Seriously. It looks so cheap and the seizure it induces is free … no additional charge,' a third wrote.

'This is horrid - especially subjecting other people to it on an airplane is unfathomable,' a woman wrote. 'I would lose my mind.'

READ MORE: Flight attendant shares the one 'hidden' danger on planes that few know about Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/femail/reallife/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Some considered that a cheap charger might be the only one the woman could afford - but that still was not an excuse.

'There are 20 ways you could use this cable stealthily in that scenario,' one wrote. 'Like just feeding the cable through a sweater or a shirt so the flashing is hidden, or putting a blanket over it.'

Some however saw no problem with the vibrant charger.

'I have one of those cords. It's kind of hypnotic and I love it in my office. I could imagine accidentally grabbing it without thinking for a plane,' a woman revealed.

'So close your eyes,' another said. 'She has every right to live free.'