Emily Atack has opened up about her pregnancy as she shared a health update with fans on Thursday evening.

The Inbetweeners star, 34, is expecting her first child with scientist Dr Alistair Garner, who is also a step-cousin she grew up with.

Due to give birth in April, the star admitted she is struggling with both exhaustion and heartburn as she hits week 21 of her pregnancy.

Taking to Instagram, Emily shared that she had been watching the Netflix adaptation of David Nicholls' One Day to get through the difficult symptoms.

She wrote: 'Week 21 of pregnancy. Getting me through this week of utter exhaustion and hideous heartburn are these two @ambikamod @leowoodall'.

Emily Atack, 34, has admitted she is struggling with pregnancy symptoms as she shared a health update to her Instagram account on Thursday

Due to give birth in April, the star admitted she is struggling with both exhaustion and heartburn as she hits week 21 of her pregnancy

Loving the heartbreaking romantic comedy, Emily gave a special mention to actor Jonny Weldon who plays Emma's long term partner Ian in the series.

She penned: 'Also a special mention to @jonnyweldon who is EXCEPTIONAL in this. He will make you laugh and cry and then your little heart will break for him.

'A brilliant and endearing character played so perfectly'.

Emily proudly announced on Instagram at the beginning of January that she is expecting her first child with Alistair.

Posting a black and white photo showing off her bump, Emily told her 1.9M followers she was 'over the moon' to be five months pregnant and due to give birth in April.

Emily later said she feels 'overwhelmed with support' after making the surprise announcement she is pregnant.

The star rested the ginger biscuit on her bump and calmed her nausea with a cup of tea from 'Mummy's mug'.

She wrote: 'Overwhelmed with all of your messages of support about our baba! I'm stuck at home very sick so your kind messages really do cheer me up. So do M&S ginger biscuits, turns out.'

Emily and Alistair recently set up home together to prepare for their baby's arrival.

. Taking to Instagram, Emily shared that she had been watching the Netflix adaptation of David Nicholls' One Day to get through the difficult symptoms

Loving the heartbreaking romantic comedy, Emily gave a special mention to actor Jonny Weldon who plays Emma's long term partner Ian in the series

The Inbetweeners star announced in January that she is expecting her first child with scientist Dr Alistair Garner, who is also a step-cousin she grew up with

Emily is five months pregnant and is expecting her firstborn in April 2024

Emily said she feels 'overwhelmed with support' after making the surprise announcement she is pregnant

The actress has known Alistair for almost three decades as her mother Kate Robbins is the sister of Alistair's stepmother Jane Garner.

They were introduced after Emily's aunt started dating Alistair's father Stephen Garner in the early nighties before they got married in 1994.

Alistair appears in a photo of the close-knit family in 2017 where he's surrounded by female members of Emily's family and has his arm draped around the star's sister, Martha. The caption read: 'He's just one of the girls really.'

Emily, whose mother Kate is separated from her singer father Keith, is also close to her showbiz relatives including Phoenix Night's star uncle Ted Robbins and her other auntie, former soap actress Amy Robbins.

Emily and Alistair kept their relationship secret for some time but grew close over the past year and have recently moved in together.

A source told MailOnline: 'Emily and Alistair have grown close over the past 12 months. It was unexpected but their family is delighted for them. They make a great couple and everybody is excited for their new arrival.'

Emily (right) and Alistair are pictured with her sister Martha (middle) on a wild night out in 2014

Emily pictured with her mother Kate Robbins. Emily's mother is the sister of Alistair's stepmother Jane Garner

Emily found fame playing Charlotte in cult comedy series The Inbetweeners, which turned her into a lads mag favourite.

Since the sitcom she starred in the movie remake of Dad's Army, finished runner-up in the 2018 series of I'm A Celebrity Get Me Out of Here! and starred in her own ITV2 comedy sketch show.

She also received praise for her 2023 documentary Emily Atack: Asking for It? which explored why she is sexually harassed online on a daily basis and delved into why the blame for unwanted sexual attention is regularly placed on the victim.

Emily spent some time out of the limelight before revealing her pregnancy with Alistair last weekend.

Her full Instagram statement read: 'Hello Everyone, it's been a little while but I'm back with some news. I'm delighted to share with you all that we're having a baby!! 'I've never been so happy and utterly terrified at the same time.

'Please go easy on me. Every day is mixed with thrill, fear, joy, hysteria, topped off with a lot of vomiting - a bit like when you've just stepped off of the Oblivion at Alton Towers on a hangover.

'I've got to know my body on such an insane level. It's made me appreciate the one I've been given SO much, I'm doing my absolute best to make it a home for the little squid I'm growing.

'We can already sense the baby is reclined on a mattress of peanut butter and jam sandwiches in there, demanding more chocolate buttons. 'I'm so happy to be writing all of this to you all. You've always stuck by me through the years, do stick around to watch me enter my mum era. Christ. Let's go.'