Ashley Cain has revealed trolls bombarded him with 'hateful' messages every day and even told him to take his own life as he faced backlash following the birth of son Aliyas.

The TV personality, 33, welcomed the tot last month, two years after he and ex partner Safiyya Vorajee, 36, tragically lost their daughter Azaylia to leukaemia.

While the mother of his son has not been identified, his ex admitted she was 'heartbroken' following the birth.

Taking to Instagram on Saturday Ashley shared a lengthy video and admitted that sometimes he feels he 'can't go on' in face of the online abuse.

When asked how he copd with the negativity directed at him Ashley said: 'The answer is with great difficulty. If I'm gonna be completely honest, I wake up a lot of time and I don't want to get up'.

Ashley Cain has revealed trolls bombarded him with 'hateful' messages every day and even told him to take his own life as he faced backlash following the birth of son Aliyas

The TV personality, 33, welcomed the tot last month (pictured) two years after he and ex partner Safiyya Vorajee, 36, tragically lost their daughter Azaylia to leukaemia.

While the mother of his son has not been identified, his ex admitted she was 'heartbroken' following the birth (pictured together with Azaylia)

'I'll go through a lot of days and think that I can't continue. I feel more often than not that I can't do this anymore that's the honest truth'.

Adding: 'And to be perfectly honest, you know, no amount of hate no amount of negativity that people throw my way will ever compare to what's happened to me.'

He went on to say how the backlash was a 'bitter pill to swallow' and credited his family and friends with supporting him.

'I want to say that what keeps me going is my daughter in the sky. It's my son here on earth, and the promises that I've made to both.'

Lifting the lid on his current mental health he confessed: 'The reality of my life is that at a minute is f*****g hard, I am struggling. I'm sad. I feel depressed, and it's hard to do the things that I need to do every single day'.

But assured fans he was doing everything he could to 'fight through those feelings' because he had so much good to do in the world.

Ashley previously defended his choice to name his newborn son after his late daughter, Azaylia.

Taking to Instagram last month he revealed he'd paid tribute to his late daughter by using her middle name, Diamond, which later explained was a 'family tradition.'

Taking to Instagram on Saturday Ashley shared a lengthy video and admitted that sometimes he feels he 'can't go on' in face of the online abuse

When asked how he copes with the negativity directed at him he said: 'The answer is with great difficulty. If I'm gonna be completely honest, I wake up a lot of time and I don't want to get up' (pictured with son Aliyas)

Ashley was met with a slew of comments from his followers who branded his son's name, Aliyas Diamond Cain, disrespectful towards his ex partner.

Safiyya has said she is heartbroken that Ashley fathered a child with someone else and claims he had asked her to try for a second baby with him after their split. She had been hoping for a reconciliation but admits she hadn't been explicit about that.

After learning about the new baby's name, one follower wrote: 'Your baby is beautiful but you are beyond disrespectful.'

READ MORE: Ashley Cain hits back at trolls in angry post after ex Safiyya Vorajee said he 'brutally' dumped her Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Another added: 'Another blow to Safiyya with a name so similar to Azaylia! So disrespectful.'

Hitting back at the comments, Ashley explained: 'What the letter 'A' holds is a family tradition, being the first letter of my father's and all of my uncles first names.

'The name 'Diamond' is from my grandma and their mother. It's our family name along with Cain, it's our Vincentian roots, all the way from our small island and from our great people.'

His daughter Azalyia was diagnosed with with acute myeloid leukemia at eight-weeks-old and had tumours on her lungs, stomach and kidneys.

She was given several rounds of chemotherapy and a bone marrow transplant at Birmingham Children's Hospital but sadly died on April 24, 2021 when she was just eight-months-old, following a courageous battle.

Announcing the birth of his son this week, Ashley shared an adorable picture to Instagram and penned: 'Aliyas Diamond Cain - 16.01.24, 4:32am, 9lbs 3oz.

'I will love you, appreciate you, guide you and protect you with all of my heart, for the rest of my life.'

'You will have the most beautiful guardian angel heaven holds watching over you and protecting you too. Welcome to the world my son.'

Ashley added: 'May your body be strong, your mind be wise, your heart be loving and your spirit be pure and truly powerful.'

Shortly before Ashley shared his baby announcement post, Safiyya took to Instagram to share a selfie captioned: 'A brave face is sometimes all we have when getting by in this world.

'If you're wearing yours today keep going. You're not alone because I'm wearing mine. Be kind to others you never know what they're going through.'

Ashley previously defended his choice to name his newborn son after his late daughter, Azaylia (pictured with Azaylia in 2021)

His former partner Safiyya last month claimed Ashley dumped her in a 'quick and brutal' way following the death of their baby daughter Azaylia, before asking her for another child

She went on to share that she'd been flooded with messages from followers saying they were doing the same thing as she advised them to 'be gentle' and try to 'love yourself a little more each day.'

Last month, Safiyya said both she and Ashley struggled with their grief and he later moved out of their home in Nuneaton, Warwickshire.

She told The Sun on Sunday: 'He'd had a drink, it was quick and brutal. He said he couldn't do it any more.'

Former footballer Ashley and Safiyya raised more than £1.5million to fund Azaylia's specialist treatment before her death and later put any unspent money into The Azaylia Foundation which aims to support families and provide memorable experiences for children fighting cancer.

Safiyya said The Challenge star Ashley turned to drink and fundraising and she put his needs first but craved love and attention from him.

Ashley moved in with his aunt and Safiyya later did the same despite splitting, with the pair having separate rooms in the same house.

She said she had always got on well with his family and, having known him for so long, saw his loved ones as her own family.

Safiyya claims Ashley then suggested having another baby but she was unsure as she did not want her child to think they'd been born to fill the 'void' left by their let firstborn Azaylia.

If you are struggling with the loss of a child please contact Sands on 0808 164 3332 or helpline@sands.org.uk

For help and support caring for children with life-limiting and life-threatening conditions, please contact Together for Short Lives on 0808 8088 100 or visit www.togetherforshortlives.org.uk