A Brit who made the move to Australia has shared the biggest cultural differences she's noticed down under.

Victoria Whitehouse packed up her life in England to relocate to Sydney on a working holiday visa - and has documented a lot of her journey on TikTok, where she's racked up more than 86,000 followers under her handle @vic_whitehouse.

In a video filmed eight months after she moved, the travel influencer revealed what she loves about Australia that the UK is lacking - however, there is still one thing she misses about home.

The clip captioned: 'Differences I’ve found as a Brit living in Australia,' has already been seen by more than 91,000 people.

Read on for the TikToker's full rundown of how life compares on the other side of the world.

Victoria Whitehouse packed up her life in England to relocate to Sydney on a working holiday visa- and has documented a lot of her journey on TikTok, where she's racked up more than 86,000 followers

Public transport is better

Victoria told viewers that the first thing that's better in Australia than back home is the public transport.

She gushed: 'Public transport in Australia is absolutely sensational - it doesn't even come close to what we have back home.

'It is so much more efficient, it's cheaper and when there's a rail strike and the trains aren't running, they will put on buses to get you to those destinations and it doesn't cost anything'.

The TikToker laughed: 'The UK could never, but yeah the transport is insane'.

The supermarkets are more efficient

The next thing on Victoria's list, which she dubs as 'absolutely genius' is the way Aussie's restock their supermarket shelves.

She explained: 'I don't think it's in all supermarkets, but definitely most of the ones that I've seen.

In a video filmed eight months after she moved, the travel influencer revealed what she loves about Australia that the UK is lacking - however, there is still one thing she misses about home

'When you're in the fridge section and you open the fridge to get, say some milk out, the fridges are open and there's people behind, so people can restock from the back.

'I don't know if that makes any sense but it blows my mind because it means you're not having to take all of the stuff out to restock so the oldest stuff's at the front.

'You can restock from the back of the fridges - how cool is that'.

Coffee shops close earlier

Moving on, the Brit mentions the one lifestyle difference that she's not a fan of in Australia - how coffee shops and cafe's close 'really early'.

She revealed: 'This does make me quite sad. Most cafe's are closing up at like 2pm to 2:30pm, to close at 3pm.

'Me and my friend tried to get a coffee at 2pm and they said they were closing and couldn't serve us, which is crazy.

'Some cafes do have it really good - they open as a cafe in the day and turn into a bar at night, which I think is an amazing idea.

'But yeah, sometimes I just want avocado toast after work and I can't get it'.

You can't buy alcohol in supermarkets

Onto her fourth point, Victoria explains: 'Next up is the fact you can't buy alcohol in supermarkets.

'All of them have a bottle shop or a liquor store next door to a supermarket, but you cannot buy a bottle of vodka in with your normal grocery shop'.

The TikToker didn't mention whether she preferred this concept or not, but she did say she found it 'really funny'.

People start their day earlier

Another thing the Brit 'absolutely loves' about Sydney, is how early people start their days compared to the UK.

She said: 'You can be up at 5am and there's coffee shops opening up, there's people going for runs, there's people out on the beach and I just love that.

'I love that people are up so early in the morning for a sunrise or people that are up early but not just for going to work, which I love'.

Australians abbreviate everything

Finally, Victoria talked about 'the way that Australians abbreviate everything'.

She revealed: 'I love this because I've definitely adopted some of the abbreviations that they do.

'McDonald's is 'Maccas,' a petrol station is a 'servo,' a bottle shop or liquor store is normally a 'bottle-o' and what I find funny is they're advertised as this as well.

'It's not just that it's abbreviated and people pick it up - sometimes they're just called that, that's what they're signed as outside, which I just think is so funny and I love it'.

Viewers are divided in the comments section about the points Victoria made, with one user penning: 'They do buses here too…'

Another added: 'It would take a six-month debate in the UK to get a bus instead of a train'.

Meanwhile, an Australian chimed in to explain: 'Cafes open really early in the morning to cater for tradies, hence closing mid afternoon,' to which Victoria replied: 'I just want breakfast food for dinner though'.

One Brit joked: 'Never been to London have you' and another questioned: 'Have you never heard of a ‘rail replacement bus service’ - it’s literally every single weekend in the UK'.

It comes as as thousands of Brits are swapping dark and rainy skies for the sunshine of Australia.

According to Statistica, the number of UK citizens leaving the country to migrate down under is the highest it has been since 2012.

Meanwhile, research from last year revealed that, nearly one in two Britons say they believe they would be better off swapping the UK for Australia or New Zealand - whether it's the sunny lifestyle, better working options or more affordable housing, something is drawing people to start a new life on the other side of the world.