Nothing beats a Jet2holiday for just the two of you: a luxury escape together, perhaps a dreamy beach break, or happily strolling the cobbled streets of a new city.

Whether you're planning that memorable honeymoon, or simply a trip to spend some quality time together, Jet2holidays takes your perfect holiday and wraps it all up in one convenient, easy package.

All the details are taken care of, with return flights, transfers and 22kg baggage included with your chosen accommodation.

Searching for inspiration? Here are five romantic trips, from Jet2holidays, to set your heart on for an escape this year. And now is the perfect time to get some sunshine in your diary, with up to £120 off* all couples' holidays in the Jet2holidays sale.

An idyllic escape in sun-kissed Tenerife

Part of the Jet2holidays Luxe Collection of four and five-star properties, Gran Meliá Palacio de Isora offers exquisite palatial design and a stunning seafront location, set between a lush banana plantation and the marble blue expanse of the Atlantic.

Claim a spot on the sun loungers and day beds by the longest saltwater infinity pool in Europe, while the expansive Spa by Clarins awaits for relaxation and exquisite treatments.

After days on the beach, by the pool, or playing golf nearby, indulge in a world of cuisines with a selection of restaurants serving everything from local Canarian dishes to Provencal, Italian and Asian flavours.

Sun-kissed Tenerife: Kick back and relax at Gran Meliá Palacio de Isora, overlooking the Atlantic

Old-world romance in the Eternal City

When in Rome… why not live it up in palatial style? Villa Agrippina Gran Meliá is a sumptuous spot, providing the perfect retreat after a day out exploring.

Built in the classic Roman style, the villa's terracotta walls and interior splashes of gold recall the glamour and luxury of old Rome. Step into the lush gardens and you'll find a pool for sun-splashed afternoons and sun loungers under opulent pergolas.

Take a break from the buzz of the city at the fantastic spa, My Blend by Clarins, which also comes with a Turkish bath, whirlpool and massage treatments. Combine this with a great location, within reach of Vatican City and the Spanish Steps, and you have all the makings of a luxurious city break for two.

Head there with Jet2CityBreaks, and book a hassle-free ABTA and ATOL-protected package complete with flights, 22kg baggage included, a choice of hand-picked hotels and lots of great flight times for a deposit of just £60pp, before spreading the cost of the rest with convenient monthly payments**.

Roman romance: Villa Agrippina Gran Meliá offers a lush escape from the buzz of the city

Unbridled luxury on the Turkish Riviera

Acanthus & Cennet Barut Collection belongs to Indulgent Escapes by Jet2holidays, a hand-picked selection of five-star hotels in exclusive locations, offering superior service and attention to the little details that you enjoy.

Set overlooking an expansive infinity pool and private beach, with swim-up suites and stylish rooms, this is the perfect romantic retreat in the charming beach resort of Side.

Here, you can enjoy an All Inclusive Plus stay and savour gourmet cuisine from around the world at the five distinctive restaurants. Choose from Turkish, Italian, Mediterranean and Asian flavours, sip cocktails at the four elegant bars, or stroll into nearby Side.

Turkish luxury: Acanthus & Cennet Barut Collection offers swim-up suites and gourmet food

A rustic retreat in Cyprus

Escape to this stone-built villa and enjoy sweeping views of coast and countryside from the balconies and terraces.

You'll find four-bedroom Petrides Villa Paphos in the heart of the rolling Argaka countryside outside the resort city of Paphos. Sleeping eight, with four bathrooms and a lovely garden, this is the perfect retreat to share with other couples, set against a mountain backdrop.

Spend days lazing on the sunloungers by your private pool, enjoy evenings cooking up a storm with the barbeque and dining al fresco, sipping sundowners in the charming outdoor bar area. Here, life takes a slower pace.

Design your own private break with Jet2Villas - their packages include car hire, villa, return flights and 22kg baggage, plus free child places*** on some holidays, and they have dreamy properties in Europe's best spots.

Rustic Cypriot retreat: Petrides Villa Paphos lies in the heart of the rolling countryside

Beach bliss in bohemian Ibiza

Soak up the Ibiza ambience at the Amare Beach Hotel Ibiza, a stylish adults-only resort from the VIBE by Jet2holidays collection, which promises the coolest hotels in the best party locations.

Gleaming white design, glass balconies and a chequered pool design set this spot apart, and it's located right by San Antonio Bay, meaning the golden beach is mere steps away.

Don't miss the Belvue Rooftop Bar and the amazing infinity pool for spectacular views. And dusk is when it all happens, with sunset DJ sessions by the pool and rooftop dinners.

Take your pick from five fabulous restaurants and three bars at this incredible Ibiza oasis.

Bohemian bliss in Ibiza: Amare Beach Hotel Ibiza is a stylish adults-only retreat near the beach

A recipe for romance in Crete From hidden beaches to island escapes and charming old town strolls, Will Tingle and his girlfriend Laura Read found romance galore when they booked a Jet2holidays trip to Crete, with return flights, transfers and 22kg baggage included. Staying at the Rimondi Boutique Hotel in Rethymnon, the couple blended the feel of a cultural escape with plenty of beach days. 'Rethymnon is a very beautiful old fishing town and is very cute to walk around,' explains Laura. 'There are lots of old streets, nice tavernas and little shops.' Laura Read and Will Tingle had a romantic break in Crete with Jet2holidays 'Yes, the old town is really lovely,' adds Will. 'There are a lot of things for couples to do as well, such as excursions and activities, and the restaurants are really set up for couples. 'On my birthday, we went to an amazing restaurant where the whole ceiling was covered in vines and you can also enjoy sunset drinks on the waterfront in the evening, the whole place just has that romantic vibe.' While there were sweeping sands just a short stroll from the hotel, Will and Laura combined lazy beach days with time spent out discovering more of the island. The couple stayed at Rimondi Boutique Hotel in Rethymnon, Crete 'We hired a car so that we could explore further,' says Will. 'We drove past amazing gorges and the hilly scenery from the car is wonderful. At one beach, Preveli, we hiked down 400 steps to the sea – that was a really special location, a highlight of the trip. 'We also went to Chania, it's about an hour away, and is a really pretty town to explore.' Combining two islands in one holiday, the couple also opted to enjoy a day trip to Santorini. Action and adventure! The couple loved a ride on a jetski 'We had to get up early,' says Laura. 'But it really is an amazing place. It's so beautiful and the views are incredible.' Then in the evenings, it was time to enjoy the wonderful local cuisine. 'Where we were staying, there was so much choice on your doorstep, so we tried a different spot each night,' says Laura. 'The people in Crete were so friendly and the people in the restaurants were so passionate about food and wine,' explains Will. 'I didn't know they were big on their wine, but they have a lot of vineyards. They loved talking about it and we loved drinking it! 'We're really keen to go back to Crete and also see more of Greece, the mainland and the islands. 'We loved it.' <!- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/travel/none/sponsored/other/12979261/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Save in the Jet2holidays sale! Book with Jet2holidays, and you’ll enjoy your pick of sun-soaked resorts across Europe, with return flights, transfers and 22kg baggage included. And, with the Jet2holidays sale now on, you can enjoy even better value on your break with up to £120 off* all holidays. There’s never been a better time to book! To bag a bargain, simply sign up for a myJet2 account, visit your independent travel agent or call the Jet2holidays contact centre on 0800 408 0778. Nothing beats a Jet2holiday! Book now and let the countdown to sunshine begin. <!- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/travel/none/sponsored/other/12979261/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_2 - ->

Book your summer holiday at Jet2holidays.com

*Couples save up to £120 on all holidays up to 31 October 2025. Saving is based on two adults sharing and is a saving of up to £60 per person. T&Cs apply, visit Jet2holidays.com/promotions#60OFFMYJET2SALE for details.

**does not include transfers as standard

***T and Cs apply