The England captain wants to make sure his side do not go into a ‘spiral’

India triumphed by 434 runs, the biggest margin of victory in their history

Ben Stokes insisted he had no regrets despite England’s thumping 434-run defeat by India in the third Test — and wants his Bazballers tovcarry on playing their way.

The England captain admitted that Joe Root’s ill-fated reverse-ramp, which sparked the first-innings collapse, was the turning point in what became a remarkable turnaround.

India’s margin of victory is the biggest in their history, and marks England’s worst defeat since 1934.

Stokes now wants to ensure England do not go into a ‘downward spiral’ ahead of the final two matches of this five-Test series in Ranchi and Dharamshala, and has targeted a 3-2 victory, just as he did when they were 2-0 down in the Ashes last summer.

There was a complaint from Stokes and coach Brendon McCullum to match referee Jeff Crowe after another controversial DRS decision went against England, when Zak Crawley was adjudged lbw even though ‘the ball was missing the stumps’.

England collapsed once again with the bat as they lost the third Test against India by 434 runs

But Ben Stokes now wants to make sure England do not go into a ‘downward spiral’

‘I won’t look back with any regret,’ said Stokes after the biggest setback of his transformational tenure as captain.

‘We went about our game with the best of intentions but sometimes your execution isn’t how you want it to be. It can be your downfall, but so be it.

‘Joe’s dismissal was definitely a turning point because he got out — but he’s scored nearly 12,000 runs so I think we can leave the decision making and the “why” with him.

‘It’s not a shot you necessarily see Test players playing but who am I to question a guy who has 30 hundreds? I think he knows what he’s doing.

‘We can’t let the disappointment eat at us. If you think too deeply about things, it can send you into a downward spiral. It’s about what we do in the next two games now.

‘We don’t need to temper our methods. Our batting line-up is full of international-class players and we give them the freedom to play what’s in front of them. We just need to look at our execution.’

England are becoming more and more unhappy about the technology used in this series and Stokes wants ‘umpire’s call’ abolished from DRS.

‘We wanted some clarity over Zak’s decision because we showed it to the match ref and the ball wasn’t hitting the stumps,’ said Stokes.

‘He came back and said it was hitting but the projection and the images showed it wasn’t. I don’t know what to make of that.

‘I’m not saying and never will say DRS is the reason we’ve lost this game but you just want something that’s consistent. I think we should just get rid of umpire’s call.

‘If it’s hitting the stumps then it’s hitting the stumps. Then it’s a level playing field.’

The England captain admitted Joe Root ’s ill-timed reverse-ramp was the turning point

There was encouragement for England supporters when Stokes admitted he was considering bowling again, starting in Ranchi on Friday, after his knee operation last year.

Stokes hasn’t bowled since last summer’s Ashes but has been seen practising at something approaching full tilt this week. Having the captain, who has 197 Test wickets to his name, as an all-rounder again would add balance to McCullum’s side, not to mention another dimension to England’s attack.

‘I’ve had my first bowl at a hundred per cent and the knee feels good,’ Stokes added.

‘I do like to jump the gun a bit too much. I am not saying yes I will bowl, but I’m not saying no at this stage, either.'