Ian Ladyman has revealed his top five Premier League centre backs of all time on Mail Sport's podcast It's All Kicking Off - with John Terry coming out in first place.

Virgil van Dijk's error during Liverpool's 3-1 defeat by Arsenal has seemingly sparked a fierce debate over how several defensive superstars should be ranked, with Manchester United supporters fighting Nemanja Vidic and Rio Ferdinand's corner.

Both giants have indeed made Ladyman's cut, albeit on opposite ends of the group, as have one Manchester City Premier League winner and a true Chelsea legend.

Speaking on the latest edition of the podcast, Ladyman delivered his selections in ascending order, starting with fifth first and working his way up to the winner.

'I'm gonna go Vincent Kompany, Nemanja Vidic, Virgil van Dijk, Rio Ferdinand and No 1, John Terry,' Ladyman told Chris Sutton. 'They are my five.'

Ian Ladyman has revealed John Terry is his best Premier League centre back of all time

Manchester United duo Nemanja Vidic and Rio Ferdinand have also made Ladyman's top five

Ladyman's debate was sparked by Virgil van Dijk's error in Liverpool's 3-1 defeat by Arsenal

Your browser does not support iframes.

Quizzed on why Terry has been placed at the top, Ladyman responded: 'Simply because, what do I want from a centre half? I want reliability. I want leadership.

Poll Who is the greatest ever Premier League centre back? John Terry Rio Ferdinand Virgil van Dijk Nemanja Vidic Vincent Kompany Tony Adams Other Who is the greatest ever Premier League centre back? John Terry 638 votes

Rio Ferdinand 526 votes

Virgil van Dijk 447 votes

Nemanja Vidic 733 votes

Vincent Kompany 289 votes

Tony Adams 370 votes

Other 286 votes Now share your opinion





'And, as a third, I also want somebody who can pass the ball in a straight line.

'He couldn't pass the ball as well as Rio Ferdinand, but if I wanted someone to defend for my life in the last five minutes of a cup final, I'd want John Terry there.

'Simply because he would do the nuts and bolts of the job. He did it, he had longevity, and he was a winner. He was a winner.

'I haven't looked up exactly how many trophies he's got, but he won, OK? We know he had bad moments, we're not going to remind him of Moscow and the penalty and everything, although now I have. But I just think for reliability, it was him.'

Intriguingly, Van Dijk would have topped Ladyman's rankings two seasons ago.

'In terms of ability I would have, two seasons ago, put Van Dijk No 1,' he added. 'But I think when you're doing these polls, you do have to look at longevity.

Van Dijk would have topped Ladyman's list two seasons ago after an unparalleled campaign

Vincent Kompany, a Premier League title winner with Manchester City, is also in the reckoning

Chris Sutton argued for Tony Adams' inclusion due to his memorable spell with Arsenal

'That season that Van Dijk had when Liverpool won the Champions League, that stat about no one dribbling a ball past him the whole season, that season was probably the best central defensive body of work I've ever seen in the Premier League.

'But because of the injury that he subsequently suffered in a game at Everton [anterior cruciate ligament damage], his levels are not quite at that height.'

Sutton, meanwhile, declared he would have included Arsenal great Tony Adams.

'Well, it's not my list, it's not my worry, but I would have had Tony Adams in there, somewhere from the earlier period,' Sutton revealed.