On an afternoon where Erik ten Hag could count on a VIP among his side's travelling contingent at Kenilworth Road Manchester United wasted no time in seizing the initiative as they secured three points against Luton.

After enduring a painful start to life in the Premier League, Rasmus Hojlund has finally hit his stride after arriving at Old Trafford this summer.

The 21-year-old gave United an almost-immediate lead, setting a record for the youngest player ever to net in six consecutive appearances in the competition in the process.

Rob Edwards' side have earned a reputation for their never-say-die attitude this campaign and while they were unable to overturn the deficit, the Hatters were more than a match for Sunday's visitors throughout.

Mail Sport's Nathan Salt takes a look at some of things you may have missed from United's victory at Kenilworth Road.

Rasmus Hojlund's early brace was enough to secure three points for Man United against Luton

Your browser does not support iframes.

Record-breaker Rasmus

It took Rasmus Hojlund just 37 seconds to rewrite Premier League history.

His goal made him, at 21 years and 14 days old, the youngest-ever player to score in six consecutive Premier League matches.

He had a brace after seven minutes, too. Quite the purple patch…

Bruised Davies still has a smile on his face

Curtis Davies was a relieved man to see much of the attention on Tom Lockyer, with the sidelined Luton midfielder joining Sky Sports’ coverage for this one.

Good job, too, given Davies, now of Cheltenham Town, was sporting a nasty bruise under his top lip. At least he was able to ‘tuck his lip in’ and smile about it.

"He was a handful"



Tom Lockyer and Curtis Davies speaking about facing Rasmus Hojlund earlier in the season 👥 pic.twitter.com/VbaRMHTM9r — Sky Sports Premier League (@SkySportsPL) February 18, 2024

Curtis Davies joined Tom Lockyer on punditry duties just days after Cheltenham's clash with Derby

Lots of style

Harry Styles was turning heads at Kenilworth Road as the former One Direction star headed down to this one.

The 30-year-old United fan posed for photos with Sky’s Super Sunday team before taking his seat alongside a familiar face in these parts.

Styles had Luton legend Mick Harford for company - and they even shared a packet of mints. A meeting of minds!

United fan Harry Styles was spotted in attendance alongside Luton legend Mick Harford

Casemiro is a card machine

Picking up a booking here made it nine yellow cards in his last 11 United games for Casemiro. It’s seemingly now part of United’s match day experience.

READ MORE: Harry Styles spotted at Kenilworth Road with the former One Direction star in attendance to cheer on his beloved Manchester United as they take on Luton Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sport/football/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

He was very, very lucky to even stay on the pitch when he recklessly went straight through the back of Ross Barkley when already on a yellow.

A long time coming for Cauley

While it was to be a warm-up to forget for Elijah Adebayo, who pulled up pre-match, it gave a forgotten man a rare chance to shine.

Adebayo, Luton’s top scorer, looked uncomfortable during the warm-up and Rob Edwards was forced to turn to Cauley Woodrow to lead the line in his absence.

It was Woodrow's first Premier League start in a decade, going back to Fulham’s 2-2 draw vs Crystal Palace in 2014. Patience - and then some.

All change (except for Harry!)

A lot has changed since Manchester United last made the trip to Luton.

For one, the stadium has undergone a number of upgrades. Two, Luton are now a Premier League team. Three, fans are in attendance this time round. And four, only Harry Maguire can recall that fixture.

The centre back is the only survivor from the Carabao Cup starting XI that day.

Casemiro (left) was fortunate not to have been sent off after a reckless challenge on Ross Barkley

Harry Maguire (left) is United's only survivor from the club's last trip to Kenilworth Road

Dean Henderson - now of Crystal Palace - started in goal, with Brandon Williams (on loan at Ipswich Town), Eric Bailly (Villarreal) and Aaron Wan-Bissaka - still at United but sidelined through injury - joining Maguire in the back line.

Nemanja Matic (Lyon) and Fred (Fenerbahce) started at the base of midfield; FC Seoul’s Jesse Lingard started on the left, Eintracht Frankfurt’s Donny van de Beek was at No 10 and the now retired Juan Mata started on the right. Odion Ighalo led the attack.