Westpac's chief executive has warned mortgage default levels are increasing as higher interest rates stop borrowers from being able to make repayments.

Peter King said home borrowers instead of small businesses were the customers now really struggling - with more of them three months behind on their mortgage.

'From a credit quality perspective, we saw a reduction in business stress while a rise in 90-plus day mortgage delinquencies reflects the tougher economic environment,' he said.

'We remain focused on helping those customers facing high cost-of-living pressures and making difficult choices to manage household budgets.'

Borrowers who are 90 days or more behind on their mortgage are considered to have defaulted on their mortgage, with the bank issuing them a notice.

Westpac's chief executive has warned mortgage stress levels are increasing as higher interest rates stop borrowers from being able to make repayments (pictured is a stock image)

Mr King made the observation on Monday as Westpac revealed a six per cent drop in net profit for the December quarter of 2023.

The $1.597billion net profit result was revealed, along with $129million in quarterly impairment charges, where a bank writes off the value of the loans it has.

Junvum Kim, a senior sales trader with online trading group Saxo Asia Pacific, said Westpac was now dealing with having less reliable borrowers.

'While the drop in net profit reflects tough economic conditions, the reduction in stressed assets indicates ongoing credit quality,' he said.

Mr King's observation about struggling borrowers was made four days after Treasurer Jim Chalmers warned mortgage stress levels would be worse in areas with more unaffordable housing.

'First of all, it's not uncommon for the composition of a slowing economy to look different in different parts of Australia,' he said.

'Certainly, those parts of Australia which are more exposed to mortgage pressures feel the pain disproportionately when interest rates go up.'

Peter King said home borrowers instead of small businesses were the customers now really struggling - with more of them three months behind on their mortgage

The Reserve Bank in February left interest rates on hold at a 12-year high of 4.35 per cent.

But the November increase was the 13th in 18 months, marking the most aggressive pace of monetary policy tightening since 1989.

Monthly mortgage repayments have climbed by 69 per cent as variable rates went from starting with a 'two' in May 2022 to starting with a 'six' late last year.