Anya Taylor-Joy took selfies with fans outside her London hotel after she was accused of Muslim cultural appropriation for wearing a hooded veil to the Dune: Part Two premiere.

The actress, 27, kept it low-key in black sunglasses and a brown leather-look trench coat which she kept unbuttoned.

Anya wore a cream jumper with black flared jeans, heeled boots and she carried a large black bag.

Anya was accompanied by a friend and appeared in good spirits.

She tied her bright blonde hair in a tight bun as she kindly chatted to her fans.

Anya-Taylor Joy, 27, took selfies with fans outside her London hotel after she was accused of Muslim cultural appropriation for wearing a hooded veil to the Dune: Part Two premiere

The actress kept low-key in opaque black sunglasses and a brown leather-look trench coat which she kept unbuttoned

She wore a cream jumper with black flared jeans and black heeled boots and she carried a large black bag as she emerged from the hote; with a pal

It comes after Anya was accused of Muslim cosplay for wearing a hooded veil to the Dune: Part Two premiere on Thursday night.

The actress, who plays Alia Atreides in the film, wore a plunging white dress to the premiere, however, over the top, she wore a headscarf reminiscent of a Muslim Burka and hijab.

Anya's dress was custom Dior, based off their ‘hyménéé’ bridal look from the spring season of 1961.

But the star has faced backlash from fans on X, formerly Twitter, over the controversial look, while others have defended her outfit.

They wrote: 'Why is Anya Taylor-Joy in hijab?' and 'A white girl wearing it is fashion, a brown or Muslim girl wearing it is oppressed.'

'The hate: understandable, but maybe misguided I think actors had to dress a certain way, so hold the hate till it’s known.'

'White ppl cosplaying as Muslim women but never EVER talking for them yes anya taylor-joy I'm looking at you.'

'We know that Anya Taylor-Joy can take this outfit off and appear in public and she will face 0 repercussions personal or professional or religious for doing so.'

Anya was accompanied by a friend and appeared in good spirits despite her late night in Leicester Square

She tied her bright blonde hair in a tight bun as she kindly chatted to the numerous waiting fans

It comes after Anya was accused of Muslim cosplay for wearing a hooded veil to the Dune: Part Two premiere on Thursday night

The actress wore a plunging white dress to the premiere, however, over the top, she wore a headscarf reminiscent of a Muslim Burka and hijab

Her dress was custom Dior, based off their ‘hyménéé’ bridal look from the spring season of 1961

'When Anya Taylor-Joy wears a ‘burqa’ it’s okay, but when Muslims do it…'

Others praised Anna's look as they wrote: 'Aw Anya Taylor-Joy looks great in a hijab!! Mashallah' and 'Anya Taylor-Joy looks like a literal ANGEL.'

'Anya Taylor-Joy criticised for ‘cosplaying as Muslim woman’ at Dune 2 premiere. Whoever criticised her for this should be fired into the sun.'

Another joked: 'Can't wait for the @nytimes headline in the middle of Ramadan: "Middle Eastern and Muslim women are in love with the new fashion trend called the Anya Taylor-Joy".'

People took to X, formerly Twitter, in their droves to both attack and defend Anya's fashion choices

The sequel was co-produced with Legendary Entertainment in addition to Warner Bros. Film Group

MailOnline has contacted Anya's representatives for comment.

Anya is part of an all-star cast, led by Zendaya and Timothée Chalamet. The film was directed by Denis Villeneuve.

Chalamet will be reprising his role as Paul Atreides, the heir to the now-decimated House Atreides, who has been abandoned with his mother on the desert world of Arakis while the members of House Harkonnen who are responsible for his family's slaughter take over the planet's lucrative natural resources.

Zendaya was introduced briefly in the first film as Chani, a member of the desert-dwelling Fremen tribe who will teach Paul how to survive in the punishing environment so that he can lead her people to rise up against the galactic forces colonizing their planet.

Dune: Part Two was originally meant to be released on October 20, 2023 before being pushed back to November 17, and later to March 15, 2024, due to the SAG-AFTRA actors' strike.

After multiple delays, the film is now set to hit theaters on March 1, 2024.

Dune: Part One and Part Two are based on Frank Herbert's novel of the same name, which was originally published in 1965.

Anna shot to fame in 2020 when she starred in Netflix smash hit The Queen's Gambit, but she also enjoyed prior success in Peaky Blinders.

In 2023, Anya married American musician and actor Malcolm McRae in a lavish Italian ceremony after two years of dating.

Later in 2024, Anya will lead post-apocalyptic action adventure film Furiosa: A Mad Max Saga, the fifth film in the Mad Max series.