Rumours are swirling that Taylor Swift and her boyfriend Travis Kelce will be enjoying a romantic holiday together in Queensland this week.

The couple are believed to be preparing to enjoy a getaway together to the Great Barrier Reef before the popstar's Sydney shows during her Eras Tour.

Travis dropped a huge hint he could head Down Under on last week's episode of his New Heights podcast, claiming that he would 'venture to an island real soon' with the best ones being 'south' of the US.

He added this week's podcast is a pre-recorded guest episode which he is not featured in, which led fans to believe he would join his girlfriend in Sydney from February 23 – and maybe travel with her to Singapore for her shows in the first week of March.

Travis has stayed close to home following his Super Bowl win, with exclusive DailyMail.com pictures showing him driving his Rolls Royce in Kansas City to get lunch with a friend on Saturday.

Rumours are swirling Taylor Swift and her boyfriend Travis Kelce will be enjoying a romantic holiday together in Queensland this week

Taylor is currently on the Australian leg of her Era's tour and fans have speculated whether Travis would rush to support her after their romance dominated NFL coverage this season.

Taylor made a panicked phone call in the early hours of the morning last week to her boyfriend after she was left 'shaken up' by the horror shooting at the Kansas City Chiefs parade, just hours after she touched down in Australia.

The singer was on the phone to the tight end at around 6am Melbourne time last Friday, just minutes after gunfire broke out on the west side of Union Station at 1:48 pm local time on Wednesday.

She then called her new friend Brittany Mahomes, whose husband Patrick is Travis' teammate, with the pair taking comfort in one another after the incident which claimed one life.

The couple are believed to be preparing to enjoy a getaway together to the Great Barrier Reef before the pop star's Sydney shows during her Eras Tour

'Taylor was extremely worried when she heard of the shooting, as expected,' a source exclusively told DailyMail.com. 'She got on the phone with Travis right away and was so incredibly relieved to hear his voice.

'She spoke to Brittany too and they were shaken up by this tragedy.'

The source explained how Taylor was left 'heartbroken' to learn that one person had died as further information about the victims was released.

Lisa Lopez-Galvan, 44, was killed when two juvenile gunmen opened fire in the crowd during a 'personal dispute' that escalated. Twenty-one others were injured, including nine children. Three people were detained after the incident.

Taylor made two $50,000 donations to the GoFundMe page set up for the grieving family of the Kansas City radio DJ.

Travis dropped a huge hint that he could head Down Under on last week's episode of his New Heights podcast, claiming that he would 'venture to an island real soon' with the best ones being 'south' of the US

'She was heartbroken to hear of the death and she hopes her donation helps,' the insider added.

'She has so much love for the Kansas City community and is sending all her love and support.'

On donating the money, Taylor wrote: 'Sending my deepest sympathies and condolences in the wake of your devastating loss. With love, Taylor Swift.'

Travis, 34, also tweeted, telling fans he had been left 'heartbroken' by the violence and matched her $100,000 donation.

Travis has stayed close to home following his Super Bowl win, with exclusive DailyMail.com pictures showing him driving his Rolls Royce in Kansas City to get lunch with a friend on Saturday