The Kremlin today threatened to fire nuclear missiles on London, Washington, Berlin and Kyiv if Russia is forced to give up the Ukrainian territory it has invaded.

Dmitry Medvedev - a close Putin ally who served as president from 2008 to 2012 - said if a military defeat led to a return to the 1991 frontiers, when the Soviet Union collapsed, Moscow would unleash Armageddon.

'Attempts to return Russia to the borders of 1991 will lead to only one thing,' he said. 'Towards a global war with Western countries using the entire strategic arsenal of our state. In Kyiv, Berlin, London, Washington.'

Hypersonic nuclear missiles would also strike 'all other beautiful historical places that have long been included in the flight targets of our nuclear triad'.

He added: 'Will we have the courage to do this if the disappearance of a thousand-year-old country, our great Motherland, is at stake, and the sacrifices made by the people of Russia over the centuries will be in vain? The answer is obvious.'

Dmitry Medvedev (pictured) - a close Putin ally who served as president from 2008 to 2012 - said if a military defeat led to a return to the 1991 frontiers, when the Soviet Union collapsed, Moscow would unleash Armageddon

School number 18 is destroyed in a Russian missile attack on Sloviansk, Donetsk Oblast, Ukraine on February 17

A Ukraine tank crew drives through roads near the city of Avdiivka on February 17. As the Ukrainian army retreats from Avdiivka, reports of heavy losses continue and Russian forces advance quickly

Civilians take part in a military training activity day conducted by the Ukrainian Volunteer Army on February 17 as the war's two-year mark nears

He suggested Kyiv and the West should allow Putin to have the bits of Ukraine he thinks of as Russia.

'It's better to return everything [to us] before it's too late. Or we will return it ourselves with maximum losses for the enemy. Like in Avdiivka. Our warriors are heroes!'

Medvedev, deputy head of the Russian security council which controls the war, hit out at 'snotty Anglo-American fosterlings' who oppose Putin.

The British and German defence ministers Grant Shapps and Boris Pistorius were '***holes' who believe the world cannot afford a Russian victory in the war, he said on his Telegram channel.

If they got their way, there would be a 'direct and irreversible collapse of present-day Russia' including its newly-invaded territories.

A view of destroyed building, located near a frontline position, after Russian shelling as the war between Russia and Ukraine continues in Donetsk Oblast, Ukraine on February 16

Ukrainian police officers and rescue workers clear the rubble of a destroyed private house after a Russian rocket attack in Kramatorsk, Donetsk region, on February 17

This handout photograph taken and released by National Police of Ukraine on February 14, 2024, shows a hospital building destroyed as a result of a missile attack in Selydove, Donetsk region

There could be 'violent civil war with the final disappearance of our country from the world map, tens of millions of victims, the death of our future.'

He asked: 'Do these idiots really believe that the people of Russia will swallow such a division of their country?

'That we will all think something like this: "Well, alas, this happened. They won. Today's Russia has disappeared.

"It's a pity, of course, but we must continue to live in a collapsing, dying country, since a nuclear war is much more terrible for us than the death of our loved ones, our children, our Russia…"?

'The West should not think that in such a scenario the leadership of Russia will 'tremble in its hand' in pushing the nuclear button.'