Grammy-award winning artist LeAnn Rimes was spotted arriving in Sydney makeup free ahead of filming for the blind auditions of The Voice Australia.

LeAnn, 41, was all smiles as she touched down at Sydney Airport on Friday.

The country music star opted for a fresh-faced look and completed her low-key look by sporting a black tracksuit.

LeAnn wore her blonde locks down as she carried her suitcase through the airport.

The superstar was photographed arriving with her actor husband Eddie Cibrian, 50.

Grammy winning artist LeAnn Rimes, 41, (pictured) was spotted arriving in Sydney make up free ahead of filming for the blind auditions of The Voice Australia

LeAnn is in town to film season 13 of The Voice Australia

LeAnn even took time to take photos with fans after her long-haul flight.

It comes a week after the superstar was confirmed as the newest member of the coaching panel on The Voice Australia in a major show shake-up.

The American country music star, 41, is one of three new faces joining as mentors, with only Guy Sebastian returning from the previous line-up.

Last year, Guy, 42, was joined by Rita Ora, Jessica Mauboy and Jason Derulo in the iconic red chairs, but Seven has recruited a string of new coaches this year.

LeAnn was all smiles as she touched down at Sydney Airport on Thursday

The country music star opted for a make up free look while sporting a black tracksuit

LeAnn even took time to take photos with fans after her long-haul flight

The superstar was photographed arriving with her actor husband Eddie Cibrian, 50

It comes a week after the superstar was confirmed as the newest member of the coaching panel on The Voice Australia in a major show shake-up

LeAnn will be joined on the coaching panel by Grammy-nominated singer Adam Lambert, Australian songwriter Kate Miller-Heidke and returning mentor Guy.

Sonia Kruger will also be back as host, presiding over the competition as a new group of aspiring artists take to The Voice stage hoping to turn their singing dreams into reality.

On joining the panel, LeAnn Rimes said: 'I am incredibly honoured and excited to embrace the opportunity of coaching on The Voice.'

The American country music star is one of three new faces joining as mentors, with only Guy Sebastian returning from the previous line-up

LeAnn, real name Margaret LeAnn Rimes Cibrian, has had more than 40 charting singles since rising to fame as a country music star at the age of 13 with her 1996 single Blue.

LeAnn has collaborated with huge A-list names including Elton John, Stevie Nicks and Joss Stone, and sold more than 48million units worldwide.

The Grammy winner is now gearing up for an epic performance at London's O2 Arena to close her The Story So Far... tour on May 8.