An American woman living in London claims Londoners 'aren't nice' and says people look at her like she's 'crazy' for thanking bus drivers.

Aurora Lofton, originally from Virginia, made the move to the UK almost two years ago and is often surprised by the stark differences between the two countries.

The 27-year-old posts candid videos to her TikTok account (@aurora._victoria) about adjusting to life in the UK and has built up quite the fanbase, with 628,000 followers and 2.2million likes to date.

We've previously reported on her thoughts on 'confusing' street signs, UK cinema snacks and her difficulties finding long-lasting bread in supermarkets.

MailOnline Travel spoke to Aurora to find out more about her 'whirlwind' London life and what she loves and hates about the city.

Aurora Lofton, who posts videos on TikTok about her life as an American living in the UK, spoke to MailOnline Travel about what she loves and hates about London

The 27-year-old claims Londoners 'aren't nice' and says people look at her like she's 'crazy' for saying thank you to bus drivers

The content creator and management consultant said: 'Overall, people are not "nice". I would not use that word to describe people down here.'

Her reasoning? She said: 'When I get off the bus, people look at me like I'm crazy for saying thank you to the bus driver.'

Aurora, who lives in East London, said the city is very 'individualistic'. She explained: 'People don't smile back at you, or if you're walking past someone on the street and say good morning. They don't say good morning back. People don't hold doors open for each other.'

She even claimed people are friendlier in New York, having previously lived in Brooklyn where she said 'people will say hello to each other'.

She added: 'Here [London], you stay in your own lane. You don't interact with anybody. You have your specific coworkers, your specific friends and acquaintances and everyone else you do not interact with at all.'

Aurora made the move to London almost two years ago and said she has now 'adapted' to city living

Aurora has become so used to the London way of living that she's found herself stunned when visiting other countries.

When visiting her family in Switzerland, she said: 'Someone said "hello" to me on the street. I was like, "Oh my god". I'm the meanest person on the street now. Because I've adapted to the London way of acting. I just forgot that's what you're supposed to do.'

However, she said: 'All those things aside, I have built such an incredible life here. I love the friends that I have, and have met such incredible people.'

Aurora claims London is the best city 20-somethings can be in. She said: 'Anything you want, London can bring it to you.

'I don't know of any other city that has this amount of diversity, green space and access to the world and Europe. Nothing compares to London.

Aurora said she has built an 'incredible' life in London and loves the 'diversity' and 'green spaces' the city offers. She's pictured left at a café in Little Venice and right in Holland Park

Aurora told MailOnline Travel: 'Anything you want, London can bring it to you.' She's shown above at The Standard Hotel in London

'You can meet people from anywhere in the world. It's such a melting pot.'

But she warns those thinking of moving to come in the spring. She said: 'The winter is horrible - it's terrible. There's no denying it.

'But spring and summer is a vibe. So just hold on and come in the springtime.'

When asked if she'd ever move back to the U.S, she said: 'Maybe one day, I love America, so my heart is in two places. I still love being an American.'

But she's not ready to swap her life in the UK anytime soon.

To see more from Aurora visit her on TikTok www.tiktok.com/@aurora._victoria and Instagram www.instagram.com/aurora._victoria/?hl=en.