A little-known island with breathtaking beaches and a luxurious resort is being hailed as one of Queensland's best kept secrets.

Pelorus Island is the northern-most land mass in the Palm Islands and sits in the World Heritage-Listed Great Barrier Reef off the coast of Townsville.

The dreamy hideaway can only be accessed by private boat and a diving tour and is attracting travellers for its pristine beaches and reefs that lie just metres from the shore.

Visitors will feel like they have the whole island to themselves and be treated to incredible beaches with vibrant blue water - each free from bustling crowds.

There are also untouched lush rainforests, rugged coastal caves and kaleidoscopic coral ecosystems to explore.

A little-known island with breathtaking beaches and an ultra luxurious resort is being hailed as one of Queensland 's best kept secrets

Pelorus Island is the northern-most land mass in the Palm Islands and sits in the World Heritage-Listed Great Barrier Reef off the coast of Townsville

The dreamy hideaway can only be accessed by private boat and diving tour and is attracting travellers for its pristine beaches and fringing reefs that lie just metres from the shore

Pelorus Island is also home to a lavish lodge with four opulent suites right on the beach starting at a whopping $20,000 a night.

Guests can soak in the natural beauty of the island by day and be treated to a culinary experience showcasing the freshest local produce in the evening.

Cruises to Pelorus Island are also offered on the more popular Orpheus Island which is only 800m away.

Orpheus Island is an all-inclusive luxury resort for up to 28 people at a time and also takes guests on cruises around the Great Palm archipelago.

For those who are after a more budget-friendly stay, camping is permitted on the island however there is no fresh water or facilities.

There are also untouched lush rainforests, rugged coastal caves and kaleidoscopic coral ecosystems to explore

Pelorus Island is also home to a lavish lodge with four opulent suites right on the beach starting at a whopping $20,000 a night

For those who are after a more budget-friendly stay, camping is permitted on the island however, there is no fresh water or facilities

People who have experienced the isolated island paradise have raved about their trips with many calling it 'beautiful' and others saying it is a 'must-do'.

'Coral right off the beach and a deserted island all to ourselves. How good,' one beachgoer wrote.

'I have been several times and has been an amazing experience every time. I have seen humpback whales, sea turtles, coral reefs, dolphins, a huge selection of different fish, manta rays and seabirds,' a second said.

'If you like to snorkel and see what is below the waves and don't have a big boat capable of the long trip to the reef then give it a go. I rate it five out of five stars, a must-see.'