Forget being a taxi service for your teens, or rushing little ones from club to activity, family holidays are all about spending quality time together.

A fun-filled family adventure is a wonderful way to explore other cultures and immerse yourself in another world.

The Kuoni team has travelled the globe with babies, toddlers and teens, so they know how important it is to create a holiday that enchants everyone.

Forget being a taxi service for your teens, or rushing little ones from club to activity, family holidays are all about spending quality time together

Whether you're looking for an all-inclusive escape, a long-haul adventure, wildlife encounters or back-to-nature getaways, they’ve got the insider knowledge on the best safari lodges, road trips and off-the-beaten-track experiences. So you can make yours a holiday to remember.

When you plan a trip with Kuoni, you’ll enjoy insights, advice and personalised recommendations from the experts, with itineraries based around family-friendly hotels, destinations and activities.

Book your trip by February 12, and you can snap up a family trip for less in the Kuoni Sale. Looking for inspiration? Here are Kuoni’s top tips for 2024, and they’re all in the sale!

Captivating Crete

Discover a luxury hideaway with tinges of Ancient Greek splendour at the Domes of Elounda

A spellbinding destination that combines gorgeous weather and stunning landscapes with rich cultural heritage and history, Crete offers unforgettable adventures for travellers of all ages. From snorkelling with starfish in the crystalline turquoise waters of Agiofarago to savouring the island’s authentic flavours with olive and wine grove tours, this Mediterranean getaway offers a uniquely enthralling experience.

The palatial Grecotel Amirandes boasts family-friendly luxury and an Olympic-sized pool

Kuoni's handpicked hotels in Greece raise the bar when it comes to family holidays. Discover a luxury hideaway with tinges of Ancient Greek splendour at the Domes of Elounda, nestled on the golden sands of a private beach to the northeast of the island. Or head to the north coast and the palatial Grecotel Amirandes, where you’ll revel in family-friendly luxury, enjoying an Olympic-sized pool, a blue lagoon and secluded coves along the dreamy coastline.

Sublime Saint Lucia

The Pitons form a mesmerising backdrop to St Lucia's verdant natural beauty

The Windjammer Landing Villa Beach Resort is spread over 65 tropical acres

Saint Lucia is often talked about as one of the most beautiful holiday destinations in the world. Little wonder: with the two volcanic spires known as the Pitons forming a mesmerising backdrop to undulating mountains and blissful bays.

On the lush hillsides of the island’s northern shores, you’ll find the Windjammer Landing Villa Beach Resort unfurling over 65 tropical acres. The sugar sands and calm waters are perfect for children, as is the kids’ club, offering activities such as coconut bowling and limbo dancing. Take your pick from expansive villas and suites, practice yoga as hummingbirds flit by and sink into the sp. Everyone will be happy with the dining options, from Italian and fresh seafood to Indian and American.

Magical Mauritius

The Heritage Awali Golf & Spa Resort is set in a former sugar estate turned nature reserve

A tropical dream, Mauritius effortlessly combines postcard-perfect beaches, lush landscapes and incredible wildlife. And then there is the food, a blend of the cultures that call this island home.

Escape for an all-inclusive stay at Heritage Awali Golf & Spa Resort, set in a former sugar estate turned nature reserve. Here, adventures range from guided nature walks to colourful snorkelling excursions, catamaran cruises to kitesurfing.

The kids’ clubs cater for children up to age 11 years, there is a varied teen programme for 12 – 17 year olds, and a Junior Golf Academy, while grown-ups will love the deluxe spa. With gleaming white sands and a beach shack serving fresh coconuts, perfect lagoon-like infinity pools and five exquisite restaurants serving distinctive cuisines, this could be paradise.

Maldives castaway charm

The island of Kuramathi is a sweeping natural playground for all ages and is exclusive to Kuoni

There are limitless activities available for kids of all ages at Kuramathi, including a fantastic Dive School

Discover a true paradise island in the Maldives. You’ll feel like The Swift Family Robinson on this long sandbank, with its towering palms and turquoise waters. The island of Kuramathi is a sweeping natural playground for all ages and is exclusive to Kuoni.

A two-bedroom beach house is perfect for a family stay and you’ll while away your days snorkelling the house reef, paddleboarding or kayaking. Little ones will love the Bageecha kids’ club and there are special activities to teens and tweens. Upgrade to Select All-Inclusive and you’ll also enjoy a choice of nine à la carte restaurants set among the lush gardens and overlooking powdered sands. Serving everything from teppanyaki to Indian dishes and fresh seafood.

Tantalising Thailand

The exclusive Sindhorn Midtown Bangkok boasts family suites and a stunning rooftop infinity pool

Round off your adventure on the blissful sands of Katathani Phuket Beach Resort

With so much to discover in Thailand, a multi-destination holiday is the ideal way to explore and Kuoni has mapped out the perfect family itinerary.

Start in bustling Bangkok, where you’ll stay at Kuoni exclusive, Sindhorn Midtown Bangkok, with its family suites and rooftop infinity pool. From here, you can choose to explore Bangkok with a private car and driver to create your own sightseeing itinerary. Magic then awaits at the Elephant Hills Jungle Safari, Khao Sok, where you can feed elephants and watch them bathe during your stay in the midst of the rainforest.

Feed elephants and watch them bathe during your stay in the midst of the rainforest at the Elephant Hills Jungle Safari

Round off your adventure on the blissful sands of Katathani Phuket Beach Resort. Children have four dedicated pools and a mini water park, and the kids’ club includes activities such as mini-lantern crafts, mask making and even Thai boxing. Go island-hopping, or paddle the clear Andaman waters in see-through kayaks.

South Africa safari adventures

Spot giraffes, rhinos, elephants and even lions on safari in Madikwe

Lelapa, a luxury family-focused eco-house is set beside a watering hole, where animals regularly stop by for refreshment

From getting up close and personal with the Big Five to stargazing beside the campfire, a South African safari offers unforgettable experiences for both teens and younger children.

You’ll start your adventure in the buzzing metropolis of Johannesburg, with time to experience the creative culture, before heading off to malaria-free Madikwe Game Reserve, where families can enjoy private game drives, spotting giraffes, rhinos and lions. Accommodation comes in the form of Lelapa, a luxury family-focused lodge set beside a watering hole, where animals regularly stop by for refreshment.

Cuisine is locally sourced and made from scratch, with a specialist kids’ menu included. Children will love scavenger hunts, while parents indulge in relaxing massages, before the family gathers to toast marshmallows under starry African skies.

Enchanting India

You’ll take a misty morning trip to Agra, to experience the magic of the Taj Mahal at dawn

Take an incredible adventure through the heart of one of the world’s most enticing destinations. On an itinerary mapped out by the Kuoni experts, you can mix train journeys and Segway rides, jungle adventures and the majestic Taj Mahal.

The Kuoni team will tailor your first days in Delhi and Jaipur to your family to offer immersive cultural experiences while you enjoy an incredible palatial stay. Then head into the wilderness for tiger game drives and jungle fort discoveries at the rural retreat of Sariska Safari Lodge.

From here, you’ll take a misty morning trip to Agra, to experience the magic of the Taj Mahal at dawn, before the crowds arrive – the perfect way to end an Indian adventure.

All of these amazing experiences and more are available through the Kuoni Sale, running until 12 February. Take your pick from desert island getaways to wildlife adventures, big city thrills to beachside serenity, with each experience tailored to your requirements so you can enjoy the holiday of a lifetime.

Book your perfect family holiday for less in the Kuoni Sale at kuoni.co.uk