Kaia Gerber commanded attention in a bold gold dress as she attended the British Vogue And Tiffany & Co. BAFTAs after party at Annabel's on Sunday.

The model, 22, looked nothing short of sensational in the eye catching dazzling tassel strapless number.

She put on a leggy display in the glamorous minidress as she elevated her frame in a pair of towering coordinated heels.

Leaving her long waved brunette tresses loose, the daughter of supermodel Cindy Crawford completed her evening outfit with a flawless palette of makeup.

Kaia, who recently enjoyed a romantic dinner date with boyfriend Austin Butler, looked incredible as she showcased her amazing figure while posing up a storm at the star-studded event.

Kaia Gerber commanded attention in a bold gold dress as she attended the British Vogue And Tiffany & Co. BAFTAs after party at Annabel's on Sunday

The model, 22, looked nothing short of sensational in the eye catching dazzling tassel strapless number

THE BAFTA WINNERS AT A GLANCE Best Film - Oppenheimer Best Director - Christopher Nolan, Oppenheimer Supporting Actor - Robert Downey Jr, Oppenheimer Leading Actor - Cillian Murphy, Oppenheimer Leading Actress - Emma Stone, Poor Things Supporting Actress - Da'vine Joy Randolph, The Holdovers Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

During the ceremony Oppenheimer won Best Film as well as sweeping the board in the major categories at the EE BAFTA Film Awards at The Royal Festival Hall.

The epic biographical thriller led the wins with seven gongs, including Best Actor for Cillian Murphy, Best Supporting Actor for Robert Downey Jr. and Best Director for Christopher Nolan. It had the most nominations with 13.

The biggest night in British film returned with actor David Tennant as host and an array of guest presenters on hand to deliver awards throughout the night.

Prince William attended the ceremony in London solo as his wife Kate Middleton continues her recovery from last month's abdominal surgery.

Murphy, 47 - who plays the titular role in Nolan's atomic bomb saga - picked up the prize at the prestigious awards ceremony.

He triumphed against Bradley Cooper for Maestro, Colman Domingo for Rustin, Paul Giamatti for The Holdovers, Barry Keoghan for Saltburn and Teo Yoo for Past Lives.

Accepting the trophy, he said: 'Oh boy, holy moly, thank you very, very much BAFTA.'

He paid tribute to 'the most dynamic, kindest producer-director partnership in Hollywood: Chris Nolan and Emma Thomas, thank you for seeing something in me that I probably didn't see in myself.'

The Irish actor said to Nolan: 'Thank for always pushing me and demanding excellence because that is what you deliver time and time again.'

She put on a leggy display in the glamorous minidress as she elevated her frame in a pair of towering coordinated heels

Leaving her long waved brunette tresses loose, the daughter of supermodel Cindy Crawford completed her evening outfit with a flawless palette of makeup

Nolan also acknowledged his 'fellow nominees and my Oppenhomies', adding: 'I know it's a cliche to say, but I'm in awe of you.'

He said J Robert Oppenheimer was a 'colossally knotty character', adding: 'We have a space to debate and interrogate and investigate that complexity and it's a privilege to be a part of this community with you all.

Downey Jr, 58, also collected a BAFTA for his role as Lewis Strauss in the Hollywood blockbuster, which has swept the board during the 2024 awards season.

He admitted he owes the award to Nolan, producer Emma Thomas and leading man Murphy, as well as 'British influence'.

Gesturing to Nolan, he said: 'Recently that dude suggested I attempt an understated approach as a last ditch effort to resurrect my dwindling credibility.'

Downey Jr's win set a new record for the longest gap between wins by any performer as it comes 31 years after his previous BAFTA, for the 1993 film Chaplin.

The previous record was 27 years, set by Sir Anthony Hopkins in 2021 when he won the award for best actor for The Father, nearly three decades after his 1994 win for Shadowlands.

Nolan won the Best Director BAFTA for Oppenheimer, his epic tale of how the nuclear bomb was created.

During the ceremony Oppenheimer won Best Film as well as sweeping the board in the major categories at the EE BAFTA Film Awards at The Royal Festival Hall - pictured Cillian Murphy accepting the Leading Actor Award for Oppenheimer