It's official - Taylor Swift has landed in Sydney as she continues her sold out Eras Tour in Australia.

The megastar, 34, was spotted boarding her private jet in Melbourne on Monday after wrapping up her third and final show at the MCG on Sunday night.

Showing off her long legs, the Shake It Off hitmaker wore a dark mini skirt paired with a red T-shirt that revealed a glimpse of midriff for her flight.

She paid tribute to her boyfriend Travis Kelce by wearing a Kansas City Chiefs Super Bowl LVIII Champs baseball cap after his team's big win earlier this month.

Swift was accompanied by her entourage as she climbed the stairs of her Bombardier Global 6000 aircraft, which boasts a double bed and fine dining cabin.

It's official - Taylor Swift is on her way to Sydney as she continues her sold out Eras Tour in Australia

The megastar, 34, was spotted boarding her private jet in Melbourne on Monday after wrapping up her third and final show at the MCG on Sunday night

She looked typically glamorous, wearing her blonde locks out in a wavy style along with her signature bold red lipstick.

The sighting marks the first time Swift has been spotted in public in Australia.

Swift landed just in Sydney at about 1.30pm after her flight was delayed 30 minutes due to the severe thunderstorms.

A group of fans braved the wild weather to greet Swift as her plane landed, hoping to catch a glimpse of the star as she disembarked.

While Australians have seen the likes of Kourtney Kardashian, Travis Barker and Pink! out and about in public in recent weeks before Monday's sighting Swift has managed to completely evade the spotlight while Down Under.

She paid tribute to her boyfriend Travis Kelce by wearing a Kansas City Chiefs Super Bowl LVIII Champs baseball cap after his team's big win earlier this month

Swift is said to be staying in a private residence while she is in Sydney - a stunning mansion located in the eastern suburbs.

But while she is visiting the harbour city, it is unlikely fans will see Swift out and about.

Between her tour legs, Taylor has 'dead days'.

Swift was accompanied by her entourage as she climbed the stairs of her Bombardier Global 6000 aircraft

She looked typically glamourous, wearing her blonde locks out in a wavy style and an application of her signature bold red lipstick

'I do not leave my bed except to get food and take it back to my bed and eat it there,' she Time magazine last year.

'It's a dream scenario. I can barely speak because I've been singing for three shows straight. Every time I take a step my feet go crunch, crunch, crunch from dancing in heels. But it’s the most fulfilled I’ve ever felt.'

Meanwhile, rumours are also heating up that her beau Kelce will be travelling to Australia to join his girlfriend and the couple may enjoy a romantic holiday together in Queensland this week.

Taylor was bound for Sydney where she will be facing thunderstorms

Taylor's jet boasts a double bed and fine dining cabin

Meanwhile rumours are also heating up that Kelce will be travelling to Australia to join his girlfriend and that the couple enjoy a romantic holiday together in Queensland this week. The pair are pictured celebrating Kelce's Super Bowl win last week

The pop star arrived Jet Base airport in a fleet of blacked out Range Rovers

Several reports have speculated they could head to the Great Barrier Reef before the pop star's Sydney shows.

Travis dropped a huge hint on last week's episode of his New Heights podcast, claiming that he would 'venture to an island real soon' with the best ones being 'south' of the US.

He added this week's podcast is a pre-recorded guest episode which he is not featured in, which led fans to believe he would join his girlfriend in Sydney from February 23 – and maybe travel with her to Singapore for her shows in the first week of March.

Airport staff gathered to say farewell to the global megastar

Swift landed just in Sydney at about 1.30pm after her flight was delayed 30 minutes due to the severe thunderstorms. Pictured arriving in Sydney

A group of fans braved the wild weather to greet Swift as her plane landed, hoping to catch a glimpse of the star as she disembarked

Fans waited at Sydney Airport huddled beneath umbrellas, as they waited for Swift and her entourage to touch down

The fans waited impatiently outside the entrance to the airport

Travis has stayed close to home following his Super Bowl win, with exclusive DailyMail.com pictures showing him driving his Rolls Royce in Kansas City to get lunch with a friend on Saturday.

Taylor jetted into Melbourne to kick off her Australian tour in a private jet earlier this month, and was quickly whisked away from the airport by a convoy of black SUVs.

She arrived at the MCG in Melbourne on Friday in a similar manner, driving up to the venue with an FBI-style cavalcade of blacked out Land Rovers.

Swift's departure for Sydney comes after she made shock on stage announcement in Melbourne on Sunday evening about her upcoming shows in New South Wales.

Swift told the packed crowd she was revising her rule of never performing the same acoustic 'Surprise Song' more than once on her Eras Tour.

Some fans held signs while one young fan brought her guitar along

Australian Federal Police cars also arrived at the airport just in time for Swift's arrival

An armed policeman stood outside the airport as Swift's arrival played out

Swift was welcomed to Sydney with a dramatic downpour of rain and thunder

Monday's sighting marks the first time Swift has been spotted in public in Australia aside from her on stage appearances

Travis dropped a huge hint he could head Down Under on last week's episode of his New Heights podcast, claiming that he would 'venture to an island real soon' with the best ones being 'south' of the US

'I want to be as creative as possible with the acoustic set moving forward and I don't want to limit anything or say, "If I played this song, I can't play it again",' Swift began.

'So, from now on, I don't want to take any paint colours out of the paintbox or tools out of the toolbox.

'I want to be able to play songs more than once if I feel like it and I want to be able to make changes to songs. Does that sound OK?' she added.