Prince Harry and Meghan have hit out at criticism of their Sussex.com website and royal rebrand - defiantly insisting they 'will not be broken'.

The couple, who have been embroiled in a series of controversies this week, issued the extraordinary statement this evening.

They have come under fire in recent days over their new Sussex.com website, in particular Meghan's coat of arms - which critics claim is a breach of their promise to the late Queen Elizabeth when they acrimoniously quit front-line royal duties.

And their decision to change their children Archie and Lilibet's surnames to Sussex has also raised eyebrows among royal watchers.

The moves have sparked a fresh round of criticism of the Duke and Duchess and renewed calls for the duo to have their titles removed.

But this evening a representative for Harry and Meghan slapped down suggestions these were the last chances for them to win back popularity and success.

The source said: 'We've heard time and time again that certain opportunities are make or break for the couple.

'They're still here. They're still working and pursuing what they believe in, despite constantly being challenged and criticised.

Prince Harry has hit back after criticism of him and Meghan's Sussex.com and Royal rebrand

Meghan and Harry attend the Invictus Games One Year To Go Event on February 14

Harry tried out one of the competitors' sit-skis and appears to be enjoying himself while being pushed down the slope by his instructor

'This couple will not be broken,' the representative added to the Mirror.

The couple spent Valentine's Day in Whistler, Canada, promoting the next Invictus Games while being followed by a film crew.

It was their first public appearance since the announcement of King Charles cancer diagnosis.

Harry and Meghan are currently in an ongoing row over the Duke and Duchess' rebranded 'royal' website Sussex.com - complete with Meghan's coat of arms - which critics claim is a breach of their promise to the late Queen when they acrimoniously quit front-line royal duties.

Sources say the couple did not consult palace officials about using their Sussex titles.

A source close to the couple defended the use of their royal titles, saying: ‘Prince Harry and Meghan are the Duke and Duchess of Sussex. That is a fact. It is their surname and family name.’

On Tuesday, Meghan was forced to put out a statement defending the graphic design company that created the couple's new website.

Furthermore, a source told the Times that Prince Archie, four, and Princess Lilibet, two, have been known as Archie Sussex and Lilibet Sussex, rather than Mountbatten-Windsor, since King Charles' coronation last May.

Sources said the relaunch is a bid to unite projects by Harry, 39, and Meghan, 42, and both their children under the same overall website.

The furore over the website was followed by her releasing a new photograph of herself wearing Princess Diana's Cartier watch as she unveiled a new podcast deal with Lemonada Media.

The portrait photo was taken by the couple's friend Misan Harriman and features Meghan wearing her late mother-in-law's gold time-piece worth £17,800, alongside a £5,000 Cartier Love bracelet – a reported gift from Harry in the early days of their relationship.

Critics said the website is an attempt to monetize the couple's royal connections leading to a new round of calls for the duo to have their titles removed, including from Meghan's biographer Tom Bower.

Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex, and Meghan, Duchess of Sussex attend the closing ceremony of the Invictus Games in September 2023. The photograph now appears on the Home page of sussex.com

Meghan and Harry's appearance at Whistler comes amid controversy over the Sussexes' relaunched website

A filming crew was spotted joining the Sussexes as they arrived for a day of sit-skiing

Meghan looked glamorous in skinny white jeans and a sweater topped with a beige quilted coat while Harry was dressed down in jeans and a black Eddie Bauer anorak

Meghan's coat of arms issued in 2018 is seen above the couple's names on Sussex.com

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex's royal crest features prominently on the new Sussex.com website and could cause tensions as a result

Their 'About' page reads: 'The Office of Prince Harry and Meghan, The Duke and Duchess of Sussex is shaping the future through business and philanthropy'

The Sussex.com website contains flowery descriptions of the Duke and Duchess

One said: 'They are going to have real trouble with the use of Sussex. It is a royal title and if there is any hint of commercialism about this it will be shut down. It's just staggering they cannot see how gauche it is.'

Meanwhile, The Daily Mirror reported that the couple did not consult palace officials before launching the new site.

Mail columnists Sarah Vine and Andrew Pierce believe the couple should be stripped of their titles to stop them shamelessly profiting off the Royal family.

Without the Royal family, Ms Vine said, Harry would simply be a 'slightly thick, balding ex-soldier' while Meghan would be a 'moderately attractive, not very successful ex-actress'.

Elsewhere this week, Markle has signed a new podcast deal with Lemonada Media after she and Prince Harry parted ways with Spotify.

The move will see her host a new podcast series for the female-founded company and have her Spotify-exclusive show Archetypes distributed to all platforms.

The new deal comes a year after the Dutchess and her husband Harry ended their $20million deal with Spotify, three years after it was signed.

Spotify and the Sussexes's audio production company Archewell Audio released a joint statement saying they have 'mutually agreed to part ways and are proud of the series we made together'.

A top Spotify podcast executive then called Prince Harry and Meghan Markle 'f***ing grifters' after they produced only one 13-episode series of a podcast for the company, and then split.

The end of the couple's reported $20million deal was announced in 2023, three years after it was signed

Meghan Markle has signed a new podcast deal with Lemonada Media after she and Prince Harry parted ways with Spotify

Bill Simmons (left), who sold his podcast and sports journalism company The Ringer to Spotify for $200 million in 2020, now works as Spotify's head of podcast innovation

Archetypes, Meghan's original Spottily show, had around 1 million listens per episode and debuted as Spotify’s No. 1 podcast in 47 countries around the world when it launched in August 2022.

The series explored the labels that try to hold women back and included guests such as Mariah Carey, Jameela Jamil and Pamela Adlon.

The series won a People’s Choice Award for The Pop Podcast of 2022 and Markle won best entertainment podcast host at the Gracie Awards.

Under the new deal, this show will now be rolled out to all audio platforms with Lemonada distributing.

Bill Simmons, Head of Podcast Innovation and Monetization at Spotify, condemned the pair in an episode of his own podcast.

'The f***ing grifters. That's the podcast we should have launched with them,' he said.

'I've got to get drunk one night and tell the story of the Zoom I had with Harry to try and help him with a podcast idea. It's one of my best stories.'

The couple spent the last two days in the picturesque ski resort of Whistler, in British Columbia, for a two-day trip from California to highlight next year's Invictus event, the first time it will involve winter sports.

They did not appear at all affected by the row over their Sussex.com website row, as Harry had a go at sit-skiing and before he set off, had joked: 'Do I need to sign a waiver?'.

The pair were spotted bending down to talk to athletes competing at the games, while Harry tried out one of the competitors' sit-skis, all while being followed close behind by a camera crew. Meghan was seen smiling with officials as she used her mobile to gather content.

The couple arrived in Canada on Tuesday and were pictured by DailyMail.com touching down in Vancouver just after noon Pacific time following a two-hour flight from Santa Barbara – the closest airport to their home in Montecito.

A convoy of cars collected the famous duo and whisked them away to Whistler where they are due to be on Wednesday and Thursday before they return to Vancouver for an event in the City of Glass on Friday.

The pair are then expected to travel home to California on Friday afternoon to be reunited with their children Archie, five, and Lilibet, two.