Anya Taylor-Joy looked chic as she was spotted leaving her London hotel on Saturday.

The actress, 27, showed off her effortless sense of style as she threw on a long brown leather coat for the spring day.

Keeping it casual after her stunning look for the Dune: Part Two premiere earlier this week, Anya donned a cream jumper and black trousers.

Scraping her white blond locks back in a slick back bun, the Queen Gambit star added some dark shades to her look as she stopped for snaps with fans.

Holding hands with a friend, she was led through the crowd as she made her way to a waiting car.

Anya Taylor-Joy, 27, cut a chic figure in a stylish brown leather coat as she left her hotel in London on Saturday

Keeping it casual after her stunning look for the Dune: Part Two premiere earlier this week, Anya donned a cream jumper and black trousers

It comes after it was confirmed Thursday that Anya is in fact starring in the hotly-anticipated sequel.

In recent days rumours have been circling as to whether Anya had a role in the Dune follow up after fans noticed that Letterboxd featured Dune: Part Two among the list of films starring Taylor-Joy.

The credit has since been removed, but screenshots continued to circulate.

And on Thursday Variety confirmed that the star does in fact make an appearance in the sci-fi epic as she plays a major character from the franchise.

Meanwhile The Holdovers star Dominic Sessa was also seen looking for his car as he left the same hotel.

The 21-year-old kept it cool in a rust coloured shacket, black skinny jeans and shades as his curly hair blew in the wind.

Dominic recently triumphed at the Critic Choice Awards as he picked up the award in the Best Young Actor category for his role as Angus Tully in the comedy drama.

Wonka star Keegan-Micheal Key, 52, was also seen signing and having pictures with fans on his way out into the capital.

Holding hands with a friend, she was led through the crowd as she made her way to a waiting car

Anya seemed in great spirits as she stopped for selfies with fans

Scraping her white blond locks back in a slick back bun, the Queen Gambit star added some dark shades to her look

Meanwhile The Holdovers star Dominic Sessa was also seen looking for his car as he left the same hotel

Dominic recently triumphed at the Critic Choice Awards as he picked up the award in the Best Young Actor category for his role as Angus Tully in the comedy drama

Wonka star Keegan-Micheal Key was also seen signing and having pictures with fans on his way out into the capital

Anya turned heads as she attended the world premiere of Dune: Part Two in Leicester Square in London on Thursday.

The star cut an angelic appearance as she donned an elegant all white number for the evening.

The star covered herself in a sheer white veil which encompassed her whole head, her blonde locks peaking out the front.

Underneath the veil, Anya opted for stunning white pleated dress which featured a daring plunging top half as she opted to go braless for the event.

Completing the look with some white strappy heels, the star added a pop of colour with a bold red lip colour to contrast the look.