MasterChef Australia judge Poh Ling Yeow is well known for her glamorous persona and youthful appearance.

On Wednesday, the reality TV star, 50, had her fans doing a double-take when she shared a jaw-dropping selfie to Instagram in which she flaunted her age-defying looks.

The celebrity chef sizzles in the eye-popping snap which captured her rocking her best angles in a slinky white gown at AACTAs on Saturday.

Poh could easily pass for a woman half her age, with her flawless complexion and striking facial features.

'Gratitude to my stylist for looking after my threads and making me feel a million bucks,' she wrote next to the photo.

MasterChef Australia judge Poh Ling Yeow is well known for her glamorous persona and youthful appearance. On Wednesday, the reality TV star, 50, had her fans doing a double-take when she shared a jaw-dropping selfie to Instagram in which she flaunted her age-defying looks. Pictured

Many of Poh's celebrity friends went wild over the stunning photo and were quick to show their appreciation.

'You look amazing!' gushed Olympian Emily Seebohm and Michelle Bridges added: 'Class act'.

'The dress is amazing,' added MasterChef's Rose Adam and drag star Kween Kong wrote: 'Stunnnnningggggg!'

On Wednesday, the reality TV star, 50, had her fans doing a double-take when she shared a jaw-dropping selfie to Instagram in which she flaunted her age-defying looks

This is not the first time Poh has shocked her fans with her youthful appearance.

In December, Poh's followers were left stunned over her age as she celebrated her 50th birthday.

Many of Poh's fans were shocked to discover her age, with one person writing: 'You don't look a day over 35! Stunning, hope you had a cracking day.'

'WHAT!!! You are NOT 50!! Happiest of birthdays to you,' another person said.

Back in March, Poh offered a look at her very unusual day on a plate, complete with weak coffee, salted pistachios and plenty of green tea.

Speaking to The Age, she explained that she generally wakes up at 6.30am, and after feeding her two beloved dogs, downs two large glasses of cool green tea.