The former Chelsea star chooses two World Cup winners among his top three

Petr Cech asked to pick his top three goalies of all time by Jamie Carragher

Petr Cech has named who, in his opinion, are the three greatest goalkeepers to have ever played the game.

The Czech stopper is regarded as of the best number ones of the Premier League era having donned the gloves for both Chelsea and Arsenal over 633 games in England's top flight.

He was twice a Premier League winner, won the Champions League with the Blues, and still holds the record for most clean sheets in a single Premier League season.

However, in a interview for Sky Sports, Cech was asked by Jamie Carragher to name the top three goalkeepers of all time.

'A first question, a tough question, but definitely I put Gigi Buffon in there', Cech said as he ran down his chosen trio.

Petr Cech was asked by Jamie Carragher to name his top three goalkeepers of all time

For his top two goalkeepers of all time Cech opted to pick two former World Cup winners

The last pick went to Manchester United legend Peter Schmeichel who made the top three

Your browser does not support iframes.

'Definitely put Neuer will be in there. It's always difficult to leave so many great ones out, but Peter Schmeichel will be my choice in there as well.'

The 41-year-old was then pressed further by the Sky Sports pundit as he asked if the three were picked in the correct order, to which Cech clarified.

'Yeah, probably. I would say so.' He added.

'There are two World Cup winners, so maybe they just get that order'.

Buffon won the World Cup with Italy in 2006 and only hung up his boots last summer at the age of 45 after an illustrious career covering almost thirty years.

Greatest 'keepers of all-time? 🤔



Petr Cech names his top three... 🥇🥈🥉 pic.twitter.com/5Pu72PUAnc — Sky Sports Premier League (@SkySportsPL) February 18, 2024

Cech played over 630 Premier League games for Chelsea and Arsenal before retiring in 2016

He made over 1100 professional appearances in his career, and holds the record for most games in Italy's Serie A.

Manuel Neuer followed in Buffon's footsteps by winning the 2014 World Cup with Germany and is regarded as one of the game-changers for his position.

The 37-year-old is still Bayern Munich's number one and the current club captain, having won eleven Bundesliga titles with the club since his debut in 2011.

Cech's last pick, Peter Schmeichel is seen as a Premier League great and a key reason for Manchester United's early dominance of the league in the 1990s.

Since retiring from football in 2016, Cech has continued his sporting career as an ice hockey goalkeeper.