Rosamund Pike and Pixie Geldof stunned at the Molly Goddard show on Day Two of London Fashion Week on Saturday.

Emmy and Golden Globe Award winner Rosamund, 44, looked beautiful in a black mini dress hemmed with a large border of white frills.

She braved the cold with bare legs in stylish black Mary Roger Vivier shoes and she carried a chic Malone Souliers handbag.

Model and singer Pixie, 33, looked lovely in a smart grey misbuttoned cardigan and a long black structured skirt.

Fashion company Molly Goddard specialises in women's ready-to-wear clothing and also bridal wear.

Rosamund Pike, 44, (pictured) and Pixie Geldof, 33, stunned at the Molly Goddard show on Day Two of London Fashion Week on Saturday

Model and singer Pixie looked lovely in a smart grey misbuttoned cardigan and a long black structured skirt

Pixie matched her jumper to her socks and carried a blue handbag which featured an eye-catching silver-studded strap

Rosamund's dress was asymmetrical, rising and falling and getting dangerously short at the centre at times.

She is awaiting the BAFTA Awards on Sunday where she is nominated for Best Actress In A Supporting Role for Saltburn.

Also at Molly's show was model Edie Campbell, 33, who sat next to Rosamund in the front row and wore a lilac sweater vest.

Pixie was also in the front row and sat next to Vogue contributing beauty editor Tish Weinstock who looked glamourous in bright red lipstick.

Kaya Scodelario looked fantastic in a sheer bright green sleeveless dress and huge platform brown shoes.

The actress, 31, was revealed to have split with her husband of nine years, American actor and stand-up comedian, just days ago.

Also in attendance was Icelandic singer-songwriter Laufey, 24, who looked amazing in peach floor-length gown, complete with ruffles.

London Fashion Week ends on Tuesday.

She braved the cold with bare legs in stylish black Mary Roger Vivier shoes and she carried a chic Malone Souliers handbag

Rosamund is awaiting the BAFTA Awards on Sunday where she is nominated for Best Actress In A Supporting Role for Saltburn

Also at Molly's show was model Edie Campbell, 33, who sat next to Rosamund in the front row wearing jeans and a lilac sweater vest

Pixie was also in the front row and sat next to Vogue contributing beauty editor Tish Weinstock who looked glamourous in bright red lipstick

Pixie has one child with singer George Barnett - a daughter born in 2021 - whom they are fiercely protective of and have refused to reveal neither her name nor her month of birth

Kaya Scodelario looked fantastic in a sheer bright green sleeveless dress and huge platform brown shoes

The actress, 30, was revealed to have split with her husband of nine years, American actor and stand-up comedian, just days ago