Dame Helen Mirren was pictured posing with Harrison Ford on the red carpet Thursday at the American Cinematheque Awards, where she was the main honoree of the event.

The English actress, 78, and the Star Wars icon, 81, smiled as they were snapped during entrances at the Beverly Hilton in Beverly Hills, California.

The Oscar-winning actress donned an elegant monochromatic ensemble of a black jacket with three large gold buttons, and a black dress.

Mirren wore her light locks parted to the side and carried a black purse with a circular silver handle to the luxe proceedings.

Ford was clad in a black suit with black tie at the luxe event, where Mirren was honored along with the cinematic testing company Screen Engine and its founder Kevin Goetz.

Dame Helen Mirren, 78, was pictured posing with Harrison Ford, 81, on the red carpet Thursday at the American Cinematheque Awards, where she was the main honoree of the event

The English actress and the Star Wars icon smiled as they were snapped during entrances at the Beverly Hilton in Beverly Hills, California

The London native and Ford have past worked together on projects including the Yellowstone prequel show 1923 and the 1986 movie The Mosquito Coast.

Mirren last year opened up to Entertainment Weekly about filming bedroom scenes for 1923, in which they played married couple Cara and Jacob Dutton.

'I had to be in the bed with him, you know,' Mirren said, adding that she had been 'dressed up to her neck during filming. 'But I'm lying there and I'm thinking, "I'm in bed with Harrison Ford." I was so excited, I can't tell you. I had to pretend to be cool.'

In the interview, Mirren called Ford 'amazing,' lauding his down-to-earth nature in spite of his long-standing fame, as he's not a 'remotely spoiled movie star at all.'

She added: 'The stature he's held, as a major humongous movie star, all that time, at the same time as somebody who doesn't love the limelight. He has this interior quality to him.

'He's come to a place where he can be easy with other actors. It's immensely generous and incredibly professional. I genuinely love him.'

Mirren was also seen posing with her spouse, director Taylor Hackford, 79, during entrances to the event.

Mirren, who won the Academy Award for Best Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role in 2007 for her performance in the titular role in The Queen, is the 37th star to be the event's main honoree.

The Oscar-winning actress donned an elegant monochromatic ensemble of a black jacket with three large gold buttons, and a black dress

Mirren wore her light locks parted to the side and carried a black purse with a circular silver handle to the luxe proceedings

Mirren was also seen posing with her spouse, director Taylor Hackford, 79, during entrances

Mirren and her spouse tied the knot in 1997, after 10 years together

Ford looked dapper in a black suit with a black tie at the luxe event

The London native and Ford have past worked together on projects including the Yellowstone prequel show 1923 and the 1986 movie The Mosquito Coast

Mirren last year called Ford 'amazing,' lauding his down-to-earth nature in spite of his long-standing fame, as he's not a 'remotely spoiled movie star at all'

Mirren described Ford as an 'immensely generous and incredibly professional' collaborator

Mirren, who narrated the Barbie film last year, proudly displayed her award plaque



In recent years, Mirren has appeared in films such as White Bird, Fast X, F9: The Fast Saga, Shazam! Fury of the Gods, Golda and provided the narration for the blockbuster hit Barbie.

She's also worked on TV series including 1923, Human Resources and Solos.

Thursday's event had been initially slated to be held in November, but was delayed by the labor strikes in the entertainment industry last year.

Past honorees include actors such as Ryan Reynolds, Scarlett Johannsson, Charlize Theron, Eddie Murphy, Bette Midler and the late Robin Williams; and directors including Spike Lee, Martin Scorsese, Ron Howard and Steven Spielberg.

Screen Engine founder Kevin Goetz was presented with the Power of Cinema Award by the organization.

American Cinematheque Board chair Rick Nicita called Mirren 'an unparalleled icon among actors' in a statement last fall, Variety reported.

'Helen Mirren has won the Oscar, Tony and Emmy triple crown of acting,' Nicita said. 'She has portrayed characters from queens to seductresses with a singular skill that has never lost its freshness or appeal.'

Pierce Brosnan, 71, looked dapper as he donned a patterned tuxedo coat with black pants

Star Trek staple Sir Patrick Stewart, 83, looked dapper in a navy blue blazer

Kevin Goetz, CEO and founder of the cinematic testing company Screen Engine, was also honored at Thursday's proceedings with the Power of Cinema Award

Kevin, who posed on the red carpet with his spouse Neil Goetz, was honored for his innovations toward the motion picture industry

Actor Alan Cumming, 59, wore a light green suit as he posed on the red carpet at the event

Hart to Hart star Stefanie Powers, 81, donned a silvery ensemble as she walked the red carpet

Breaking Bad star Bryan Cranston, 67, was among the speakers at the event

Nicita said Mirren 'brings a savvy intelligence and emotional strength to all her roles because, as movie stars do, the camera shows us the essence of who they are.

He added, 'Movie audiences eagerly embrace her talents in a career that glows brighter with every captivating performance.'

A number of other prominent names in the entertainment industry attended Thursday event, including Pierce Brosnan, Patrick Stewart, Stefanie Powers, Alan Cumming and Bryan Cranston.