Harry Kane might miss out on any club silverware in his first season at Bayern Munich - but a potential personal accolade has brought laughter to Arsenal fans.

Bayern trail Bayer Leverkusen in the Bundesliga table by five points, after a 3-0 defeat to their title rivals on Saturday evening - and while there are 13 games of the season remaining, it would be the first time in 12 years that Bayern have failed to win the German league if they cannot claw back the deficit.

And the pressure is mounting on the German giants after their 1-0 defeat to Lazio on Wednesday night meant they are up against it in the last 16 of the Champions League.

However, fans noted that former Tottenham talisman Kane is on course to bag the Torjagerkanone Award, the German equivalent of the Golden Boot, for his 24 goals in 21 league appearances for Bayern, seven goals clear of his nearest rival.

There's just one thing: the trophy looks like a cannon, one of the famous emblems of Arsenal, the local rivals of Spurs.

Bayern's Harry Kane is currently seven goals clear in the race for the Torjagerkanone Award

However, Arsenal fans were quick to joke on discovering that the trophy looks like a cannon

Your browser does not support iframes.

One fan wrote on X (formerly Twitter): 'So, Harry Kane could finish this season as the Bundesliga’s top scorer, but still without a championship trophy to his name…

'And the funniest part - Have you seen what the award for being top scorer in Germany actually looks like?'

They shared pictures of other former winners of the trophy, including ex-Bayern star Robert Lewandowski, who won the prize seven times.

Fans responded to the tweet mocking Kane's potential prize, with various responses including 'No way !!!! This would just be hilarious', 'HAHAHAHA this is awesome' and 'This is truly wonderful..'.

To further compound matters - and dragging the North London argument across to the German title race - former Arsenal midfielder Granit Xhaka has made 21 league appearances for Xabi Alonso's Bayer Leverkusen side this season.

Another wrote: 'Would be the Spursiest thing ever. Joining a team that's won the league 11 seasons in a row and finishing top-scorer after a record-breaking season of goal scoring, only to finish second to a team with an ex-Arsenal player and getting a cannon-shaped trophy for his exploits.'

Fans on X (formerly Twitter) found it funny the ex-Spurs talisman could win this trophy

Kane's Bayern are five points behind domestically, and lost to Lazio in the Champions League

Meanwhile, someone else noted: 'the Bundesliga has the chance to do the funniest thing ever'.

The England captain said himself that his £100m move to the Bundesliga giants was inspired by silverware, having yet to win a trophy during his career, but with Bayern up against it in the league and Europe - and out of the German Cup - he might be waiting a little longer.

Last year's Torjagerkanone - which literally means "goalscorer cannon" - was split between Niclas Fullkrug and Christopher Nkunku, who both scored 16 goals each.