Enzo Fernandez scored one of the goals of the season on Wednesday night, and Conor Gallagher's reaction told you just how special it was.

Fernandez curled a stunning free-kick into the top left corner from about 25 yards out in Chelsea's 3-1 FA Cup fourth round replay clash with Aston Villa on Wednesday night, sparking rapturous scenes.

Nicolas Jackson - not long returned to west London from AFCON duty - was seen holding Fernandez's shirt aloft and bowing down to it as the Blues celebrated the cracking strike.

It was perhaps the best Chelsea performance of the season at a time when pressure is mounting on Mauricio Pochettino - with reports also emerging that Fernandez himself is not quite as happy at the club as expected.

Fernandez's strike in the second half was on of the best free-kick goals of the season so far - but Gallagher's reaction to his team-mate's strike almost matched it.

Fans have been quick to point out Conor Gallagher's 'priceless' reaction to Enzo Fernandez's stunning free-kick

The Argentine international bent a beautiful set-piece into the top left corner from 25 yards

Gallagher quickly turned around with his mouth agape and his eyes belying his shock at the goal

Your browser does not support iframes.

As the ball hit the back of the net, Gallagher turned to face the World Cup winner, his mouth hanging wide open and his expression visibly giving away his shock.

Slow motion footage captured the moment perfectly, and fans were quick to point out the wholesome moment.

One of them wrote: 'Absolute disbelief from Conor Gallagher.'

Another added: 'Conor Gallagher couldn't believe his eyes.'

A third wrote: 'Conor Gallagher's reaction to Enzo Fernandez's free-kick was priceless,' followed by a laughing emoji.

And a fourth said: 'Conor Gallagher was all of us last night watching Enzo Fernandez's free-kick.'

Gallagher himself got the ball rolling on the night at Villa Park, opening both the scoring and his account for the season in the first half.

After starting the move by feeding Jackson, he came in at the edge of the box to finish well past Emiliano Martinez to put the visitors 1-0 up in quick time.

Nicolas Jackson scored the second after Gallagher had opened the scoring himself early on

The English midfielder admitted that he would love to be among the goals more often

Jackson then made it two with a header from a Malo Gusto cross, before Fernandez's free-kick was followed by a 91st-minute consolation from Moussa Diaby.

Gallagher had played 30 games this season before Wednesday night's clash without scoring, and said after the game: 'It is [a weight off my shoulders] to be fair, finally!

'Obviously, I like to score goals and I want to score more. This season I haven't done so and hopefully I can get a few more.

'It was nice to get my goal and with it being my first of the season, it was really important to me. I think it helped us gain confidence in the game which helped us win, so I'm really happy.'