Hugh Grant joined his glamorous wife Anna Elisabet Eberstein at the star-studded arrivals for the 77th EE British Academy Film Awards held at the Royal Festival Hall on Sunday.

The actor, 63, looked dapper in a black tuxedo and bow tie as he posed arm-in-arm with his beloved wife Anna, 41.

Anna dazzled in a glitzy multi-coloured mini dress and flashed her incredibly toned legs in stylish court heels.

The loved-up couple looked smitten as they posed for a slew of shots for the cameras before heading into the ceremony.

Hugh appeared in great spirits as he sweetly signed autographs for fans and posed for photos on the side.

Hugh Grant, 63, joined his glamorous wife Anna Elisabet Eberstein, 41, at the star-studded arrivals for the 77th EE British Academy Film Awards held at the Royal Festival Hall on Sunday

The actor looked dapper in a black tuxedo and bow tie as he posed arm-in-arm with his beloved wife Anna

David Tennant will host this year's ceremony live from Royal Festival Hall at London's Southbank Centre, with an array of guest presenters on hand to deliver awards throughout the night.

Actress and singer Hannah Waddingham will treat guests to an exclusive live music performance, while Sophie Ellis-Bextor will perform her iconic hit Murder on the Dancefloor after it enjoyed a new lease of life in Emerald Fennell's BAFTA nominated Saltburn.

Elsewhere the Guyanese-born, London-based film curator June Givanni will receive an Outstanding British Contribution to Cinema Award.

Actress Samantha Morton's lengthy career will also be rewarded with a BAFTA Fellowship, the arts charity’s highest accolade and handed out in recognition of outstanding and exceptional contribution to film, games or television.

Tennant, who is hosting the star-studded ceremony for the first time, recently admitted he was bewildered by the prospect of compering to so many people.

He told Variety: 'I don’t know what to expect, if I’m honest with you. The whole thing just feels like one of those experiences you say “yes” to because it would be churlish not to. But what an amazing thing to be asked to do. What a privilege.'

The Scottish actor also insisted he will adopt a softer approach to the abrasive style used to great effect by Ricky Gervais at the Golden Globes.

'I think the BAFTA mood is supportive and friendly,' he added. 'Ricky Gervais is brilliant at what he does, but that wouldn’t be my style.

Anna dazzled in a glitzy multi-coloured mini dress and flashed her incredibly toned legs in stylish court heels

The loved-up couple looked smitten as they posed for a slew of shots for the cameras before heading into the ceremony

THE BAFTA WINNERS AT A GLANCE Best Film - Oppenheimer Best Director - Christopher Nolan, Oppenheimer Supporting Actor - Robert Downey Jr, Oppenheimer Leading Actor - Cillian Murphy, Oppenheimer Leading Actress - Emma Stone, Poor Things Supporting Actress - Da'vine Joy Randolph, The Holdovers Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Hugh appeared in great spirits as he sweetly signed autographs for fans and posed for photos on the side

Hugh wore a crisp white shirt under his smart tuxedo and bow tie

The icon couldn't wipe the smile off his face as he greeted fans at the star-studded BAFTAs

'I don’t think I’ve quite got that sort of approach, so I think you just have to kind of be who you are, really. But we’ve got some good material that won’t leave anyone feeling got at.'

Tennant revealed he was in complete shock when he received an email asking if he wanted to host the annual awards show.

Speaking to the Radio Times, he said: 'Right now, a month out, it feels like a bit of a thrill and a lark.

'An extraordinary opportunity to do something very unusual and exciting. People keep asking me how nervous I am, how I’m preparing for it and so on, and that’s beginning to make me nervous.

'Who knows why they’ve asked me! I just thought I’d say yes before they realised they’ve sent the email to the wrong person.'

BAFTA CEO Jane Millichip confirmed the academy was 'over the moon' that Tennant would be hosting the ceremony.

She said: 'He is deservedly beloved by British and international audiences, alike.

'His warmth, charm and mischievous wit will make it a must-watch show next month for our guests at the Royal Festival Hall and the millions of people watching at home.'