With millions of passengers expected to take a cruise this year, there's no doubt it's a popular travel choice. Yet for many the attractions of a cruise holiday are a mystery - often shrouded in misconceptions.

Whether for fear of seasickness or the thought of too much organised fun, many miss out on the unique experience that a cruise holiday offers, claiming that it's 'not for them'.

To bat away misperceptions floating around about cruises, Gordon Nardini, Head of Innovation at Ambassador Cruise Line, has compiled a list of the most common cruise myths - and debunks them once and for all.

Myth: Cruises are more hassle than flying

Gordon Nardini, Head of Innovation at Ambassador Cruise Line, says that no-fly cruises are a comfortable and hassle-free way of travelling

Gordon claims cruises offer a hassle-free travel experience, contrary to popular belief. With several operators offering no-fly cruises, he claims 'you can start your holiday from the minute you leave your house'.

He explains: 'Boarding straight onto the ship from various ports across the UK means the first day of your "holiday" truly feels like a holiday. Rather than enduring a stressful travel day, you can arrive at the port at your allotted time, check through security painlessly, get your bags delivered to your cabin and be onboard eating, watching shows, sharing a drink with friends or sleeping in comfort.

'What’s more, on a cruise holiday, there are no restrictions on liquids. No more losing your favourite moisturiser or chugging two litres of water as you approach the security check-in.'

Myth: Limited food and drink options

'The ease of not having to think about cooking is one of the best parts of a holiday and cruising takes that even further,' says Gordon

In reality, Gordon says cruise ships are a 'foodie's paradise'. He adds: 'From gourmet dining to casual buffets, the variety of restaurants on board a cruise ship means guests will always find something they’re in the mood for.

'The ease of not having to think about cooking is one of the best parts of a holiday and cruising takes that even further, with delicious dishes to suit all tastes: across the board. From poolside snacking, late-night canapes, and fine-dining options to buffet-style all-day dining, even the fussiest eater will find something to satisfy their cravings.'

If that wasn't enough, at each new port, there's the option to 'hop off and try local cuisine'. He says that this combination of on and off-board food will have you 'leaving with a rather full belly at the end of the holiday'.

Myth: Cruises lack privacy

Cruising has plenty of secluded spots for you to squirrel away, says Gordon - even on small to mid-size ships

While some may think that cruises lack privacy, Gordon claims 'there are plenty of opportunities to find alone time on the ship'.

He says: 'From quiet spots around the pool, reading a book in an on-board library to your private balcony, if it’s solitude you’re seeking, cruising has plenty of secluded spots for you to squirrel away, even on small to mid-size ships.

'What’s more, cruise cabins are the perfect space to relax and unwind away from the hustle and bustle of day-to-day life. With the gentle sound of the sea sending you to sleep each night, cruises can be a great space to chill, read a book, meditate or just be alone with your thoughts for a while.'

Myth: Motion sickness is inevitable

Gordon claims that 'the majority of cruisers find their sea legs' after a day or two on board

If you suffer from seasickness, this worry is understandable. But Gordon points out that 'cruise ships are specially designed to reduce the motion of the waves on board'. While you may have experienced a 'somersaulting stomach' on a dingy or a ferry, Gordon says this 'does not mean the same will happen on a cruise'.

He adds: 'After a day or two, the majority of cruisers find their sea legs. Bodies are intelligent and extremely adaptable meaning they keep us feeling happy and ready-to-holiday when at sea. And, if worse comes to worse, all cruise ships should have a supply of seasickness remedies onboard.'

Myth: Cruises aren’t for me

Whatever you enjoy on a holiday, Gordon says you'll find something that 'floats your boat'

Gordon Nardini (pictured), Head of Innovation at Ambassador Cruise Line

Gordon claims holidays at sea offer something for everyone. He says: 'Whether you're a solo explorer, an avid adventurer or a couch potato, there's a cruise experience for you.

'The beauty of cruising lies in the freedom to choose: immerse yourself in off-the-beaten-path in-destination adventures, such as exploring Norway's charming fjords or the walled city of Santiago de Compostela, engage in onboard activities like engaging talks from subject experts, cinema screenings, exercise classes, or craft workshops, or simply unwind in your cabin and enjoy the breathtaking balcony views.

'Whether you prefer tracksuits and tequilas over ballgowns and Bellini's, cruise holidays are catered to you – it’s genuinely a case of... whatever floats your boat.'