Fulham fans hit out at the Premier League following Saturday’s home defeat by Aston Villa questioning why their side were given such an inexperienced referee.

Lewis Smith, 30, became the youngest referee to take charge of a Premier League game since Michael Oliver in 2010. Less than a year ago, he was officiating in the National League.

Smith allowed the game to flow and was kept busy with three offside goals and an array of penalty claims but he was subjected to chants of, ‘You’re not fit to referee’, from the Fulham fans after blowing the whistle in the fifth of five minutes of stoppage time despite Villa making a substitution in that period.

A run of five Fulham bookings in the last nine minutes did not help his case, either, but Marco Silva refused to complain.

Smith is seen by Howard Webb’s development group as one of the best of the next generation of officials and became the fifth new referee in the Premier League this season. If a referee is good enough, they are old enough, and the hope from PGMOL is that by allowing them to learn on the job and develop that mental toughness at elite level, the standard of officiating will only improve. Oliver is a fine example of that.

Fulham fans were disappointed with referee Lewis Smith during their loss to Aston Villa

He was subjected to chants of, ‘You’re not fit to referee’, from the Fulham fans after blowing the whistle in the fifth of five minutes of stoppage time despite Villa making a substitution

Prior to the refereeing controversy, Aston Villa's Ollie Watkins had taken centre stage putting the visitors a goal up before scoring a second

Your browser does not support iframes.

But it did not stop Fulham fans being incensed and questioning why they are used as ‘guinea pigs’. Rebecca Welch became the first female referee to officiate a Premier League game when she took charge of Fulham v Burnley earlier this season — and the Clarets won 2-0.

Before the refereeing controversy in the closing stages, Ollie Watkins had taken the limelight. His second goal was a work of art. Watkins came short for the ball, dragging Issa Diop out of the Fulham backline before spinning masterfully behind him into the open space and executing a ruthless first-time finish.

Diop was man-marking the Villa striker but he was undone by the simplest yet most ruthless of movements.

It was classic centre-forward play and, for all of Villa’s injury problems, this was an afternoon to appreciate a return to form for their striker after a run of just two goals in 10 games. That second goal was ultimately the difference between the sides.

‘He’s clinical. He works hard every day on his finishing and he’s showing his worth now,’ said team-mate Matty Cash. ‘It’s not a surprise that he’s scoring goals — I’ve seen it since he came to the club. His work ethic, what he does to get in those positions and how he lives his life as a top professional. His goal contribution for the last 18 months, or however long, is brilliant,’ Cash added.

Under Dean Smith and Steven Gerrard, Watkins’ role would vary, but under Unai Emery, he has flourished as an out-and-out centre forward.

Rodrigo Muniz would pull a goal back for the London club after Watkins had given Villa a two-goal lead

Watkins has thrived under the guidance of Unai Emery pictured as an out-and-out centre forward

A tally of 23 goal involvements with 13 goals and 10 assists in the Premier League this season is only bettered by Mohamed Salah, and since Emery took over in October 2022, the tally for Watkins is 40 goal involvements with 26 goals and 14 assists. No Englishman has more.

Yet it was the all-round aspect of his game that had Emery singing his praises, from dropping back to assist the midfield to creating chances. No player has more assists in the league this campaign and an in-form Watkins is surely in pole position to be Harry Kane’s deputy at Euro 2024.