Sir Jim Ratcliffe has attended the Munich memorial service at Old Trafford on Tuesday as Manchester United remembered the victims on the 66th anniversary of the tragedy.

It is the first time Ratcliffe has been part of the poignant ceremony since investing £1.3billion in his boyhood club.

The Ineos owner was joined by his sporting director Sir Dave Brailsford and Sir Alex Ferguson beneath the Munich memorial plaque for the service at 2.40pm.

United manager Erik ten Hag and captain Bruno Fernandes were also present, along with women’s team boss Marc Skinner and skipper Katie Zelem.

Paddy Crerand and Brian Kidd, two members of the team that lifted the European Cup under Sir Matt Busby in 1968, 10 years after the disaster, were also in attendance.

Manchester United investor Sir Jim Ratcliffe (L) attended the club's Munich Air Disaster memorial service on Tuesday

Ratcliffe was also joined at the service by sporting director Sir Dave Brailsford (L) and legendary manager Sir Alex Ferguson (R)

Manchester United boss Erik ten Hag made an appearance alongside captain Bruno Fernandes

The service was held at Old Trafford to remember the 23 people who died during the tragedy on the 66th anniversary. Pictured: Fans pay tribute during their side's clash against West Ham

Your browser does not support iframes.

Eight of the Busby Babes and three members of staff were among the 23 people who died as a result of the crash on February 6, 1958 as the plane carrying United back from a European Cup quarter-final against Red Star Belgrade made a third attempt to take off after refuelling at Munich Airport.

Memorial services are taking place in Manchester and Munich. The ceremony at Old Trafford is being led by fan group Munich58, while a similar service at Manchesterplatz – close to the site of the crash in Germany – has been organised by Manchester Munich Memorial Foundation.

Mike Phelan, the former United player who also served as assistant manager to Ferguson and Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, is representing the club at Manchesterplatz, having laid a wreath at the graveside of Frank Beckenbauer earlier in the day. The Germany and Bayern Munich legend passed away last month at the age of 78.

A separate service was also held in Munich at Manchesterplatz - close to the crash site in Germany

Former Man United assistant Mike Phelan was the club's representative in Munich - alongside ex-Bayern Munich player Franz Roth after leaving a wreath at the grave of Franz Beckenbauer

United’s former chaplain Rev. John Boyers led the service at Old Trafford which included poems, songs, and readings before a two-minute silence at 3.04pm, marking the exact time of the crash.

The Munich service followed similar order, with wreaths being placed on behalf of the club, the Association of Former Manchester United Players and the fans.

The two minutes’ silence was followed by the traditional singing of The Flowers of Manchester.

The club’s delegation included eight participants from the Manchester United Foundation’s Street Reds community football projects. One of the eight young people laid a wreath and another read a poem.