Two of Australia's biggest Taylor Swift fans are on cloud nine after they received a handwritten letter from the pop star herself inviting them to her concert.

Emily Hunt and Bonny Rebecca, who run a popular Taylor Swift YouTube channel Chats and React, attended the singer's sold out concerts in Melbourne on Friday and Saturday.

On Sunday morning, the duo were shocked to receive a message from the star's official Instagram page 'Taylor Nation', inviting them to watch her third sold out Melbourne show from the VIP area with the singer's father Scott.

The pair shared a video to Patreon documenting the incredible moment.

'Hi there, we know this is last minute but we would like to invite you guys back for tonight's show if you can make it. Please let us know,' Bonny said, reading the message aloud.

Two of Australia's biggest Taylor Swift fans are on cloud nine after they received a handwritten letter from the star herself

'Yes, yes, yes!' Emily frantically exclaimed.

The duo attended the show and spent the night rubbing shoulders with Swift's friends and family.

At one point in the VIP tent, Swift's father Scott personally handed Emily and Bonny two handwritten letters from the Shake It Off hitmaker.

Emily Hunt (left) and Bonny Rebecca (right), who run the popular Taylor Swift-focussed YouTube channel Chats and React, were invited by Swift to attend her third Melbourne show on Sunday from the VIP tent

At one point, Swift's father Scott (centre) personally handed Emily and Bonny two handwritten letters from the Shake It Off hitmaker

The contents of Emily's letter has since been posted to X (formerly Twitter). 'Emily, Hi! I'm so grateful to you and Bonny for how much you've cared about my music, and all the times you've referred to it as 'iconic' and 'immaculate',' Swift wrote

The contents of Emily's letter has since been posted to X (formerly Twitter).

'Emily, Hi! I'm so grateful to you and Bonny for how much you've cared about my music, and all the times you've referred to it as "iconic" and "immaculate",' Swift wrote.

'You've made me laugh and made me feel understood many times with your reviews. I love your wild joy and enthusiasm. That's why I do this! Have a blast tonight. Sending my love. Taylor. xoxo'

The YouTubers shared a flurry photos from the unforgettable show, writing next to one image of themselves posing with Taylor's father: 'Long live Scott Swift!'

Captioning another photo of Bonny looking elated, the pair wrote: 'THANK YOU Taylor Swift. Thank you Scott!!!! You have made our lives with this night. We will never forget it.'

The YouTubers shared a flurry photos from the unforgettable show. (Pictured: Taylor Swift performing at MCG on February 16 2024)