Katie Holmes once again showcased her impeccable style as she stepped out in New York City on Saturday.

The 45-year-old Dawson's Creek alumna — who recently enjoyed a bit of retail therapy with lookalike daughter Suri Cruise — was spotted in a fashionable ensemble featuring a black leather jacket and patterned jeans.

Rocking dark designer shades and carrying a leather handbag, the star bundled up in a gray turtleneck sweater during the chilly Big Apple outing.

She opted for a pair of white sneakers for the stroll, as she was kept company by a friend.

The outing follows the revelation that Katie's ex, Tom Cruise, had once photoshopped himself into an on-set snapshot with acclaimed directors David Fincher and Cameron Crowe.

Katie Holmes, 45, once again showcased her impeccable style as she stepped out in New York City on Saturday

Katie was married to Tom from 2006 until 2012 and the couple welcomed their daughter, Suri, in April 2006.

Since then she has had custody of Suri, who has reportedly not had a relationship with her father since 2013.

Katie revealed Suri recorded a cover of the song Blue Moon for her film Alone Together, a project in which the movie star wrote, directed, and starred.

'She's very, very talented. She said she would do it and she recorded it and I let her do her thing,' Holmes told Yahoo! Entertainment.

She added: 'That's the way I direct in general: It's like, "This is what I think we all want - go do your thing.

The actress also revealed that Suri sang on Rare Objects, a project Katie also wrote, directed, and starred in.

However, Katie added that Suri's current focus isn't directed toward a singing career: 'Other than that, she's a 16-year-old kid doing high school.'

Meanwhile, Katie was recently spotted taking over the Big Apple sidewalks with two of her three sisters.

Rocking dark designer shades and carrying a leather handbag, the star bundled up in a grey turtleneck sweater during the chilly Big Apple outing

The outing follows the revelation that Katie's ex, Tom Cruise, had once photoshopped himself into an onset snapshot with acclaimed directors David Fincher and Cameron Crowe; pictured in February 2024

Katie was married to Tom Cruise from 2006 until 2012 and the couple share 17-year-old Suri; pictured together in 2007

It is unclear which sisters joined in on the fun, as the star has four older siblings: Tamera, 55, Holly Ann, 54, Nancy, 48, and brother Martin, 53.

Although Katie is notoriously private about her personal life, she has opened up about her Ohio-born family on occasion.

'I don’t know how my mom did it, raising all five of us,' she said in a 2009 interview with Glamour. 'I have three sisters and three sisters-in-law; I have learned from them. I’m inspired by them.'

In 2016, she told New York Times, 'I’m the youngest of five, I have three older sisters, obviously I’m a mom, and I feel comfortable with telling female relationship stories because I’ve been surrounded by so many women my whole life.'