Charles Barkley eviscerated San Francisco during the NBA All-Star game, claiming the city has a problem with 'homeless crooks'.

The former NBA star was part of TNT's alternate broadcast during Sunday night's game in Indianapolis, alongside Warriors player Draymond Green and ex-Pacers guard Reggie Miller.

While on the microphone at Gainbridge Fieldhouse in Indiana, Green initially took a pop at the host city.

'Hey Reggie we love you, let’s not have another All-Star (game) in Indiana. Let’s let this be the last one, my friend,' the controversial forward said.

That prompted a brutal response from Barkley, who spent 16 seasons in the NBA with the 76ers, Suns and Rockets.

Charles Barkley savaged San Francisco during the NBA All-Star game on Sunday night

The former NBA star was part of TNT's alternate broadcast during the game in Indianapolis

'Hey Reggie,' Barkley said, 'If you had a chance of being in the cold, or being around a bunch of homeless crooks in San Francisco, which would you take?'

His comment shocked his fellow analysts, with Green responding: 'That's crazy! You're not welcome, they're not letting you in!'

But the 60-year-old Alabama native doubled down, adding: 'You can’t even walk around down there.'

Next year's All-Star game is slated to take place at the Chase Center in San Francisco.

Charles Barkley bashes ‘homeless crooks’ in San Francisco on All-Star Game altcast, says you need ‘bulletproof vest’ to walk around https://t.co/CoxX55GQcN pic.twitter.com/5EwGckneiN — Awful Announcing (@awfulannouncing) February 19, 2024

It is not the first time the former forward has criticized San Francisco, pictured here

Green hit back, insisting: 'You can walk around'. But that only drew another scathing comment from Barkley, who responded: 'Yeah, with a bulletproof vest.'

It is not the first time the former forward has criticized San Francisco. During the 2022 Western Conference finals in Dallas, the roof of the American Airlines Center began to leak.

During the brief rain delay, Barkley said: 'The bad thing about all this rain, it’s not raining in San Francisco to clean up those dirty-ass streets they got there.'

He added: 'San Francisco, it’s a great city, but all that dirtiness and homelessness, y’all gotta clean that off the streets.'