A bride-to-be has sparked a family feud after asking her sister to remove her one-year-old from her wedding ceremony if the child starts to become a 'distraction'.

The woman said she wants her niece to be a part of her special day but she is still very young and often 'chatters, shouts and babbles' loudly.

She asked her sister if she or her brother-in-law could take their child outside if she started to make noise during their ceremony to keep the attention on the bride and groom.

However, the bride's sister thought she was being unreasonable, accused her of wanting to 'exclude' her niece and threatened not to bring the child to the destination wedding at all.

'To be honest, she's p***ing us off so much that we'd be fine with all three of them not coming at this point!' the woman said in a Reddit thread.

A bride has fallen out with her sister after asking if she would remove her one-year-old daughter from her wedding ceremony if she started babbling loudly (stock image)

'I don't think that I'm asking anything unreasonable. All I want is a peaceful, relaxed ceremony where we can all focus on what's going on without a toddler babbling away.'

The bride said she and her fiance are having a small destination wedding in two weeks' time and her sister is bringing her one-year-old daughter.

'The child is more than welcome - she's part of the family and we want her there as part of the day,' she explained.

'However, as she's still very young (and very loud at times), I've asked that somebody take her out during the ceremony if she's being distracting and shouting/babbling loudly.'

The woman said her niece will probably disrupt the ceremony as she is 'constantly chatting' and 'never quiet'.

'It's only for half an hour and she can be as loud as she likes for the rest of the day. I just want everybody to be able to focus on the ceremony and I don't want the distraction,' she said.

'My partner and I have planned some spiritual moments and we want everyone to be able to enjoy them. Also, to be honest (again a bit a**holey perhaps), we want the guests' attention focused on us at this point.'

The sister thought is request was unreasonable and called the bride an 'a**hole' for 'excluding' her daughter from the celebration and therefore her husband who will be the one to take the child outside.

'She says that I'm asking him and the one-year-old to go all that way just for the evening meal as they will miss the ceremony and that the one-year-old will most likely miss that too as it will be after bedtime,' she said.

The bride tried to reassure her sister there would be plenty of relaxed portions of the day like during the photos and cake cutting where the child could be as loud as she wanted but the mum was having none of it.

'She's still really annoyed with me. She's now saying that I should've said that it was a child-free event from the start and that they would've planned to leave her behind,' she said.

The bride's sister thought she was being unreasonable, accused her of wanting to 'exclude' her niece and threatened not to bring the child to the destination wedding at all

'I would never ever have asked a new mum to go away for a weekend on a plane without her child, particularly as this was organised a while ago when the child was still very tiny and dependent.'

The sister is threatening to come without her daughter and husband. The bride 'called herb bluff' and said that would be fine.

'To be honest, even if this WAS an unreasonable ask, surely as it's my wedding day then it's up to me? Isn't it the one day of my life when I can do literally anything I want?' she asked.

The woman's dilemma attracted hundreds of responses and while most sided with the bride others felt sympathy for the mum.

'I agree with her. If you didn't want children you should have said it was child-free. If you say it's okay for niece to be there then you have to take the good and the bad,' one user said.

''Isn't it the one day of my life when I can do literally anything I want?' No. No, it is not. This mindset is toxic and you should not act like it is,' a second replied.

'People who think the whole world should stop during 'special day' are just awful. Perpetuating this 'It's MY DAY to do any and every single thing I want and everyone should bow down' is such a childish attitude and seriously needs to stop,' a third complained.

'It's actually fine that you don't want kids at the wedding, just admit it. You should have designated the wedding child-free so that your sister could properly plan,' added a fourth.

But dozens sided with the bride, defending her stance and slamming the sister for being 'selfish' and 'ridiculous'.

'Weddings cost a lot of money so it’s only valid that you want the attention to be on you both on your special day. You really are not asking much, I think your sister is overreacting,' one woman said.

'I thought taking a loud kid outside was basic etiquette, to be honest, so I’m kind of baffled by the sister,' a second wrote.

'Quite honestly no one should have to even tell someone to take their noisy child out of a wedding service - that's just common courtesy,' one user agreed.