Celebrities attending the British Academy Film Awards typically dress to impress for a star-studded night of glitz and glamour.

But it can also be an evening that brings out the very worst in fashion, with A-listers often opting for bold (and sometimes downright strange) high fashion ensembles.

This year was no exception, with the stars braving the cold to step out in some of the weirdest and wackiest red carpet styles at the Royal Festival Hall in London.

Among those who missed the fashion mark this year were actresses Alison Oliver and Emma Corrin, both of whom opted for rather unusual ensembles.

Oliver, who appeared in the BBC Three series Conversations with Friends, wore a figure-hugging silver gown - complete with oddly-placed silver fringe detailing.

Among those who missed the fashion mark this year were actresses Alison Oliver and Emma Corrin, both of whom opted for unusual ensembles

Oliver, who appeared in the BBC Three series Conversations with Friends, wore a figure-hugging silver gown - complete with oddly-placed silver fringe detailing

The beauty wore her brunette hair slicked back, and opted for a dark red lip.

Also making a fashion faux pas tonight was The Crown's Emma Corrin, who wore a pair of bright blue tights underneath a sheer skirt - which was topped with matching bows.

The 28-year-old actress completed her bold ensemble with a rouched, long-sleeved crop top, and wore a thin black veil over her face for good measure.

Sex Education's Mimi Keene also missed the mark tonight, wearing a teal slip dress that looked like it was in desperate need of ironing.

The brunette beauty wore a bedazzled silver bralet beneath the plunging neckline of the gown, which she matched with a pair of glittering silver kitten heels.

Sex Education's Mimi Keene also missed the mark tonight, wearing a teal slip dress that looked like it was in desperate need of ironing

The Sex Education actress worse a plunging teal dress, with a sparkling bralet underneath

The brunette beauty wore a bedazzled silver bralet beneath the plunging neckline of the gown, which she matched with a pair of glittering silver kitten heels

Joining the worst dressed this year was Bryca Dallas-Howard, who paired her heavily sequinned, silver gown with very chunky black heels

The actress posed on the red carpet in her silver gown, which featured cut out pieces

Mimi wore her hair half up, and completed her outfit with glitzy silver jewels.

Joining the worst dressed this year was Bryca Dallas-Howard, who paired her heavily sequinned, silver gown with very chunky black heels.

And Naomi Campbell was very bold with her red carpet choice, in a tiered black dress, which was reminiscent of Little Red Riding Hood's cloak.

The English model wore her hair in a sleek bob style, and her make-up was typically flawless.

Also making a fashion faux pas tonight was The Crown's Emma Corrin , who wore a pair of bright blue tights underneath a sheer skirt - which was topped with matching bows

Naomi Campbell was very bold with her red carpet choice, in a tiered black dress, which was reminiscent of Little Red Riding Hood's cloak

The nominees for the BAFTA EE Rising Star Award were announced on January 10, with the official long-list of nominations unveiled on January 18. Pictured: Naomi Campbell

Tonight's event is being hosted by Doctor Who actor David Tennant.

He told Variety recently that he doesn't know what to expect by the evening, adding: 'The whole thing just feels like one of those experiences you say “yes” to because it would be churlish not to.

'But what an amazing thing to be asked to do. What a privilege.'

The Scottish actor also insisted he will adopt a softer approach to the abrasive style used to great effect by Ricky Gervais at the Golden Globes.

Edith Bowman also made a fashion faux pas as she attended the BAFTAS tonight

Her gown included a floral and butterfly print, accented with panels of delicate white lace

British singer-songwriter Celeste wore a red velvet cowl-neck dress, which featured a train

Actress Amy Jackson arrived at the BAFTAs with Ed Westwick, in an elaborate white gown

'I think the BAFTA mood is supportive and friendly,' he added. 'Ricky Gervais is brilliant at what he does, but that wouldn’t be my style.

'I don’t think I’ve quite got that sort of approach, so I think you just have to kind of be who you are, really. But we’ve got some good material that won’t leave anyone feeling got at.'

Ahead of tonight's ceremony, BAFTA CEO Jane Millichip said the academy was 'over the moon' that Tennant would be hosting the star-studded evening.

She said: 'He is deservedly beloved by British and international audiences, alike.

The 28-year-old actress completed her bold ensemble with a rouched, long-sleeved crop top, and wore a thin black veil over her face for good measure

Corrin poses on the BAFTAs red carpet in her elaborate, bold ensemble

The actress took time to meet fans who had gathered on the red carpet in London tonight

'His warmth, charm and mischievous wit will make it a must-watch show next month for our guests at the Royal Festival Hall and the millions of people watching at home.'

The British Academy of Film and Television Arts is a world-leading independent arts charity that draws attention to the best of film, games and television and supports the development of creative talent in the United Kingdom and the wide world.

The organisation also celebrates excellence and nurtures fresh talent through year-round workshops, scholarships, masterclasses, mentoring schemes and lectures.

The nominees for the BAFTA EE Rising Star Award were announced on January 10, with the official long-list of nominations unveiled on January 18.