Mid-term by-elections are always difficult for incumbent governments,’ Rishi Sunak said breezily, as he gamely tried to shrug off Thursday’s disastrous defeats. ‘But it also shows there isn’t a huge amount of enthusiasm for the alternative in Keir Starmer and the Labour Party.’

And it’s true. Voters traditionally view mid-term electoral tests as an opportunity to give the governing party a vigorous kick in the marginals. But we are no longer mid-term. This is an Election year. Which means it’s time for Sunak to ditch the denial and face reality.

The longer he waits to call that Election, the worst it will be for him and the Conservatives.

In the immediate aftermath of their dual implosion in Kingswood and Wellingborough, Tory MPs were dispatched to put a brave public face on the results. One of their favourite lines echoed the PM’s – that while disappointing, there is minimal evidence of fervour building behind Sir Keir and his cosmetic re-branding of Labour.

With some justification. ‘The thing about Starmer is he hasn’t got a plan,’ a retired railway worker called Mellor told me as he left his polling station at St Mark’s Church Hall in Wellingborough. ‘He moves forward, then he doubles back. He can’t stick to anything.’

Rishi Sunak, carrying a zombie knife, put on a brave face during a visit to a police station in Harlow, Essex, on the day of the by-election results

Pat, a customer service manager, highlighted the ditching of Labour’s £28 billion Net Zero plan. ‘Look at what Starmer’s done. He promised it, then he dumped it. So what else is it he suddenly won’t be able to find the money for?’

A second argument is that Thursday’s results were partly the product of the infighting that has scarred the Tory Party over the past few weeks.

‘There wasn’t a huge amount of direct switching,’ a Tory adviser claimed. ‘Our vote stayed at home. So we have a choice now. We can basically pull our s**t together, and get in the fight. Or we can carry on like we have the past few months. In which case we’ll be annihilated.’

Conservative strategists also believe they have detected a silver lining in the share of the vote secured by Reform UK, Richard Tice’s polished reimagining of Nigel Farage’s insurgent Ukip party.

Although Reform’s vote – 10 per cent in Kingswood and 13 per cent in Wellingborough – was broadly in line with its national ten-point poll average, there had been some speculation it could beat the Tories into third place. And the performance was a far cry from the days when Ukip was winning by-elections outright in Tory strongholds such as Rochester and Clacton.

‘The real story of the by-elections was how Reform under-performed,’ a senior Conservative adviser claimed to me. ‘At one point, they were boasting they could actually win Wellingborough. But by the time the polls closed they were trying to put a positive spin on the fact their vote share was in double figures.’

Again, there is validity in that analysis. But it also only paints a partial picture. Because to fully appreciate the size of the hole Sunak and his troops are now in, you have to peer into its cavernous depths through the opposite end of the telescope.

Yes, Reform did under-perform expectations. Yes, there is muted enthusiasm for Starmer. Yes, these by-elections were held against a backdrop of confusion over Labour’s economic strategy, and the return of the spectre of the party’s anti-Semitism.

Yet despite all that, the Tories were still utterly destroyed in seats where they had previously held double-digit majorities. And Labour secured its second-highest swing from the Conservatives in any by-election since the war.

What’s more, the longer Sunak attempts to cling on, even these nominal positives will begin to turn against him. Along with a growing proportion of the British people.

Touring the polling stations of Wellingborough on Thursday, it was noticeable that Labour’s ditching of its £28 billion pledge, and the scandal surrounding its candidate in Rochdale, was indeed resonating. But it’s unlikely to resonate for long.

‘Yes, we’ve had a bumpy couple of weeks,’ a Starmer adviser told me, ‘but that’s primarily because we’ve been operating at pace.

‘We’ve been rushing to get all the barnacles off the boat before we get to the Election run-in. And when you’re running at that speed, it’s inevitable you’re going to make a few mistakes.’

By October – supposedly pencilled in as Sunak’s preferred Election window – most of those barnacles will have been safely chiselled from Labour’s hull. It’s also likely that, at some point over the next few months, some form of ceasefire will have been introduced in Gaza, cooling the passions which are currently creating a schism within Labour’s Muslim vote, and which led to the suspension of the party’s Rochdale candidate.

Time is also likely to prove more of a friend to Reform than it is to the Conservatives. Although the party under-performed on Thursday, the trajectory is clear. A year ago, Reform was polling 6 per cent. That has now doubled. And as every month passes, more and more disillusioned voters are swapping traditional Tory blue for Tice’s focus-grouped turquoise and white.

There are also growing whispers within Westminster about the possible defection of a Tory MP to the Reform banner. At which point, the prospect of the Tory tribe coming together to take the fight to Labour would disappear for good.

Gen Kitchen won Wellingborough by overturning a Conservative majority of more than 18,500

Damien Egan, the former mayor of Lewisham in London, overturned a Conservative majority of 11,220 in Kingswood, securing 11,176 votes and a majority of 2,501

And even if Downing Street and the whips can prevent panicking MPs from bolting, there is another huge obstacle lying across Sunak’s plan for an October poll.

‘In May, we’ve got the local elections. And based on these by-elections, they’re going to be a nightmare,’ one Tory rebel predicted. ‘At that point, everyone’s going to lose their heads. Defeated councillors and Tory chairmen will be demanding blood. MPs will be freaking. That will be the moment of maximum danger for Rishi.’

Sunak’s instincts have been to ride out the impending storm. But this strategy has been predicated on one important assumption – that the economy would gradually begin to turn in his favour.

Last week’s announcement it has slipped into recession has effectively ended any prospect of the Prime Minister securing a political dividend from ‘going long’ until October. Economists and Ministers can claim this is a ‘technical recession’ till they’re blue in the face – it doesn’t feel like that to millions of people suffering painful interest rates and a cost-of-living crisis.

What’s more, it has destroyed Sunak’s key argument. ‘I successfully cleared up Liz Truss’s economic mess,’ was going to be his Election pitch. Now he’s struggling to clear up his own economic mess. And even if he succeeds, voters are hardly going to thank him for it.

Make no mistake, last week’s by-elections were disastrous for Sunak. But he needs to face an unpalatable truth – this is as good as it gets.

The longer he waits before calling an Election, the more time he gives Starmer and his team to recover from their February Fumble.

Each month he delays is a month that will see Reform prise more and more disillusioned voters from the Tories.

The closer he gets to May’s local elections, the closer he gets to a moment of complete national implosion, and the trigger for the plotters to make their move against him.

There is nothing to be gained by waiting for October now. Indeed, it’s highly unlikely the PM can even make it to October. There are no cavalry riding to his rescue.

So Rishi Sunak has only one option left. Call a May Election, and make his final stand.