Cornwall Insight says 'risk' current fixes will not translate into savings

Energy industry analysts have issued a new warning about fixed-rate tariffs that come with punishing exit fees.

The alert follows research which found the cheapest fixed rate energy tariff on the market is £130 a year higher than the predicted annual figure for the official price cap from April 1.

Industry analysts Cornwall Insight have warned households against signing up to fixed-rate deals that could leave them out of pocket.

It spoke out following from This is Money about a controversial new fixed rate tariff offered by Scottish Power in partnership with Cancer Research UK.

Fix warning: Cornwall Insight says that fixing now could be unwise, with the Ofgem-set price cap set to fall in April and July

It is being promoted with claims that it would be £129 a year cheaper than the existing price cap figure of £1,928 for typical annual use.

However, Cornwall Insight say this fixed rate deal and others on the market will be considerably more expensive than the predicted price cap figure of £1,620 from 1 April, before it then drops again to £1,497 in July.

Cornwall Insight said: 'Fixed tariffs offer the benefit of locked-in energy rates, usually for a year or more, but if variable energy prices come down, and customers want to switch before the end of their contract, they could incur a large exit fee.'

There are currently 35 fixed rate tariffs available in the market. The exit fee on the Scottish Power 'Help Beat Cancer' tariff is £150 per fuel – a total of £300 – if the customer switches to a rival supplier.

James Mabey, analyst at Cornwall Insight, adds: 'After a slow comeback, fixed energy deals have started to attract more customers, with the guaranteed rates proving increasingly appealing to those seeking to protect themselves from further economic instability.

'With some fixed energy tariffs dipping below the existing price cap, it's understandably tempting to sign up.

'However, there is a risk these deals might not translate to actual savings come April, when a significant decrease in the price cap is projected.

'It is important consumers weigh the immediate appeal of a slightly lower price against the potential for larger savings down the line.'