A UK-registered cargo ship is at risk of sinking in the Red Sea after Houthi rebels attacked it off the coast of Yemen last night, the rebel group has claimed.

The attack occurred in the Bab al-Mandab Strait, 35 nautical miles south of Al Mukha, Yemen, on Sunday night, the UK's Maritime Trade Operations (UKMTO) said, against a vessel that was later identified as the Rubymar.

The crew of the British-registered cargo ship, which comes in at 171.6m long and 27m wide, was forced to 'abandon the vessel' following the attack, though the UKMTO said yesterday that all crew are safe and 'authorities are investigating.'

'Military authorities report crew have abandoned the vessel,' the UKMTO said today, adding: 'Vessel at anchor and all crew are safe.'

Houthi Brigadier General Yahya Saree issued a statement claiming the attack, saying the vessel, which last sent out a signal nearly 18 hours ago, at time of publication, was 'now at risk of potentially sinking.'

The UK's Maritime Trade Operations (UKMTO) said it received a report of an incident 35 nautical miles south of Al Mukha in Yemen on Sunday night. An explosion in close proximity to the vessel had resulted in damage, but all crew are safe and 'authorities are investigating'

The crew of the British-registered cargo ship, which comes in at 171.6m long and 27m wide, was forced to 'abandon the vessel' following the attack

BREAKING: UK-registered cargo ship 'under attack' near Yemen https://t.co/PAiZ4D1jU3



📺 Sky 501, Virgin 602, Freeview 233 and YouTube pic.twitter.com/qJGtU1lhep — Sky News (@SkyNews) February 18, 2024

'The ship suffered catastrophic damages and came to a complete halt,' Saree said. 'During the operation, we made sure that the ship's crew exited safely.'

The private security firm Ambrey reported the Lebanese-operated and Belize-flagged cargo ship had been on its way to Bulgaria after leaving Khorfakkan in the United Arab Emirates.

Ambrey described the ship as being partially laden with cargo, but it wasn't immediately clear what it had been carrying. The ship had turned off its Automatic Identification System tracker while in the Persian Gulf early this month.

'The partially laden vessel briefly slowed from ten to six knots and deviated course, and contacted the Djiboutian Navy, before returning to her previous course and speed,' the firm added.

The Iran-backed Houthis also claimed they shot down an American MQ-9 Reaper drone, something not immediately acknowledged by US forces in the region. However, the Houthis have downed U.S. drones before.

Meanwhile, the US military said it was conducting new airstrikes targeting the rebels, including one that targeted the first Houthi underwater drone seen since they began launching attacks on international shipping in November.

Yemen's Houthi followers lift mock drones during a protest staged against the Israeli still war on the Gaza Strip

Yemen's Houthi followers hold their rifles as they participate in a rally staged in solidarity with Palestinians amid the military escalating in the Red Sea

Since Yemen's Houthi rebels seized the country's north and its capital of Sanaa in 2014, the US military has lost four drones to shootdowns by the rebels - in 2017, 2019 and this year.

Meanwhile, the US military's Central Command reported it carried out five airstrikes targeting Houthi military equipment. Those strikes targeted mobile anti-ship cruise missiles, an explosive-carrying drone boat and an 'unmanned underwater vessel,' Central Command said.

'This is the first observed Houthi employment of a UUV since attacks began in Oct. 23,' Central Command said.

Yemen's Iran-backed Houthi rebels have launched repeated drone and missile attacks against international commercial shipping in the Red Sea since mid-November, saying it is acting in solidarity with Palestine as Israel wages war on Hamas.

The UK and the US have carried out joint airstrikes against the Houthis in recent weeks in order to stop attacks on commercial shipping.

Since November, the Houthis have repeatedly targeted ships in the Red Sea and the Bab al-Mandab Strait over Israel's offensive in Gaza.

They have often targeted vessels with tenuous or no clear links to Israel, imperilling shipping in a key route for trade among Asia, the Middle East and Europe.

The attacks have prompted several companies to halt Red Sea journeys and opt for a longer and more expensive route around Africa.

The Houthis fired naval missiles at the British ship 'LYCAVITOS' in the Gulf of Aden last Thursday.

The group said it will continue to enforce a 'blockade on Israeli navigation in the Red and Arabian Seas until a ceasefire is achieved and a siege is lifted in the Gaza Strip'.

Meanwhile, spiralling shipping costs triggered by the Houthi rebel attacks on vessels in the Red Sea could mean that Britons could face severe price rises and shortages on major household items like white goods, sofas, garden furniture and barbecues this summer.

The price of global shipping containers jumped by more than 300 per cent from November 2023 to January this year as a result of the chaos.