Detective Constable Matt Cooper could hardly believe what he was seeing. Row upon row of the most expensive and sought-after bicycles in the UK — all snatched from the City of London — some whole, others in pieces, in what amounted to the biggest haul of its kind in the police force’s history.

‘I was just shocked,’ he tells me. ‘We had tracked one stolen bike to a plant hire business in East London — and found about 60 more. Bikes in the office, bikes in the toilet, bikes hanging up on rails, bikes stacked up everywhere. There was about £130,000 worth. It was hard to take in.’

DC Cooper and a small team of officers from City of London police had just cracked a huge criminal operation. But they hadn’t spent months or millions doing it. They had infiltrated the gang’s lair and arrested its kingpins in less than a single shift.

It is an operation being praised by cyclists, and one likely to make other forces, whose performance tackling bicycle crime was described last month as tantamount to ‘decriminalisation’, squirm with embarrassment.

Because all it took was the will to tackle bicycle theft, an acknowledgment that it isn’t ‘petty crime’ and no small amount of canny policing.

Some of the £130,000 haul

Last week, Louey Baldwin, 29, from Orpington in Kent, who masterminded the operation, was jailed for two years and nine months for handling stolen goods.

Sidekick Suleyman Akram, 30, from Southwark, London, was jailed for two years and six months, and right-hand man Ryan Boxcer, 32, of Shoeburyness, Essex, was given a two-year suspended sentence.

Seven other members of the criminal operation have already received sentences, ranging from six months suspended to 18 months in prison — and at least 20 bikes have been returned to their owners.

In the months after the sting, bicycle theft fell by an astonishing 90 per cent.

‘This should make other police forces sit up and take notice,’ says Duncan Dollimore, head of policy at campaign group Cycling UK. ‘I accept policing concerns about resources and priorities, but this wasn’t an operation that needed massive intelligence or money.

It required some sensible, clever policing with a reasonable amount of resources — but it yielded some pretty substantial results.’

According to Statista.com, a bicycle was stolen every seven minutes in England and Wales last year — equalling more than 77,000 thefts. The figure is likely to be much higher, as many, if not most, people don’t report them. A household survey by Cycling UK suggested the figure could be as high as 237,000.

Last month, in a blistering attack on the police, the Lib Dems pointed out that almost 90 per cent of all reported bike thefts go unsolved, while only one in 50 results in a person being charged. Of the officially reported thefts over the past five years, 350,000 resulted in no conviction.

Guilty: Suleyman Akram, 30, sold stolen bikes on auction websites and was jailed for two years and six months

Mastermind: Louey Baldwin, 29, handed out angle grinders was jailed for two years and nine months for handling stolen goods

CCTV shows Suleyman putting a stolen bike in the boot of his car

‘These shocking figures will leave people wondering if bike theft has been decriminalised,’ says Alistair Carmichael, Lib Dem home affairs spokesman.

‘Whether used for commuting, family days out or exercise, people’s bikes are hugely valued possessions. So bike thefts leave victims both out of pocket and feeling distressed. Knowing the thief will get away with it just rubs salt into the wound.’

The City of London operation took place on November 4, 2020, but the Mail can only reveal the details now. During that summer, at the height of the pandemic, officers had been struck by reports of a wave of bicycle theft that had seen scores reportedly stolen in and around the Square Mile.

Sixty-eight were taken in August alone, with some elite models worth up to £10,000. They decided to do something about it.

‘We bought a relatively high-value bike and left it locked up in Rood Lane, off Fenchurch Street,’ says DC Cooper. ‘This is an area targeted by bike thieves — but there is also a lot of CCTV coverage. We left it there in the morning and it was stolen by thieves, who cut through the lock with an angle grinder, at 2.30pm.’

For operational reasons, the police won’t say what sort of bike was used as bait, nor what kind of technology was used to track it.

But track it they did — to a warehouse occupied by Express Plant Hire on a business estate a couple of miles away in Tower Hamlets. By 3.12pm, Baldwin and Boxcer were under arrest, the police had found their own stolen bike, and the massive task of cataloguing the other bicycles and parts had begun.

‘It took three of our biggest police vehicles to transport all the bikes to Bishopsgate police station — and colleagues in the property store are still emailing me to ask when they can go,’ says DC Cooper.

The officers seized mobile phones from Baldwin and Boxcer. CCTV footage from the company — a legitimate tool rental business — showed Baldwin handing out angle grinders and bolt cutters to thieves at the warehouse, and then paying them cash when they returned with stolen bikes.

The business is owned by Boxcer’s father, Simon, who was also charged in connection with the operation, but was found not guilty.

By examining the CCTV recordings (which covered just seven days) and information gleaned from the mobile phones, DC Cooper was able to paint a picture of a Dickensian-style crime gang, with Baldwin acting as a latter-day Fagin. But instead of sending out street urchins to pick pockets, Baldwin’s was a gang of heroin and crack addicts desperate for their next fix.

Since being arrested, Baldwin has married and now has a seven-month old baby. He had no previous convictions, and although he responded ‘no comment’ during his police interviews, DC Cooper found him disarmingly ‘mild, friendly and “normal”.’

The police were able to track his activities over just a two-year period, so can only speculate as to how his criminality began.

They believe he could have been offered a stolen cycle by a desperate drug user, and the illegality grew as word got around the drug-using community in Whitechapel, which borders the City.

‘Baldwin’s real job at Express Plant Hire was maintenance of tools rented out in the plant hire operation,’ says DC Cooper. ‘He would fix them up, clean them and get them ready for the next customer. But this also meant he was able to supply equipment to his team of thieves.

‘The CCTV footage shows some of them arriving four or five times a day, from first thing in the morning to last thing at night, each time with a new bike. And it shows Baldwin handing out angle grinders complete with new blades and new batteries, as well as cash. The thieves knew there was a safe place where they could sell stolen bikes and that there was always money available.’

The operation was huge. Officers found bikes and parts packaged up and ready to be delivered to customers who had bought them on eBay, Gumtree and Facebook Marketplace. They included high-end models worth up to £10,000 but, because they were stolen, the thieves often didn’t drive a hard bargain.

For example, a £1,300 Genesis Equilibrium was sold on eBay for just £400, while a specialised Roubaix road bike worth £2,900 went for just £500. It didn’t matter to Baldwin as long as the cash kept flowing.

During the trial, it emerged that Baldwin had suffered a head injury a number of years earlier that might have caused him to display ‘hoarding’ tendencies. A jury did not have to decide whether to take this into account, because he pleaded guilty.

At first, Boxcer, his manager at work and accomplice, didn’t, but he changed his plea once he saw the overwhelming evidence the police had gathered. He, too, had no previous convictions and is married with at least one daughter. Again, DC Cooper found him to be the antithesis of a ruthless gangster.

‘He actually seemed like a nice guy,’ he says. ‘He wouldn’t comment in interview, but we did chat. We had similar-aged kids, so we had a conversation about that.’ Akram, the other jailed perpetrator, came to the Metropolitan Police’s attention when a member of the public saw his own stolen bike up for sale on an auction website.

He reported this to the police, who accompanied him when he met Akram to ‘buy’ the bike. When they searched the bike thief’s home in Southwark, officers found 27 other bicycles.

Unlike Baldwin, he did fit the picture of a potentially dangerous criminal, with previous convictions for harassment, possession of a knife and common assault. Akram and Baldwin would text each other pictures of stolen bikes, boasting about how many they had in storage and how valuable they were.

They often complained about their gang of thieves — calling them ‘nitties’, a demeaning term for ‘stupid’ drug addicts — damaging or scratching goods during thefts with angle grinders.

One of the bikes stolen by the gang belonged to Italian-born Golfetto Massimo, 36, who has been working as a barman in London for seven years. During the pandemic, he had been laid off and so was riding his red Felt 95 bike — worth £800 new, but bought second-hand for £400 — so he could work as a food delivery driver to bring in some cash.

‘It was about 9am and I was training at my gym in Whitechapel,’ he says. ‘When I came out and saw it was gone, it was horrible. It left me feeling powerless because at the time everything was closed down and I was using my bike to work as a Deliveroo driver. A CCTV camera showed a man with an angle grinder taking it in broad daylight and nobody stopped him. I reported it to the police, but didn’t expect anything to happen.’

Several months later, Golfetto received a phone call asking him to attend Bishopsgate police station to identify a bike seized in the East London raid. It was his.

‘I was overjoyed,’ he says. ‘I’m so grateful to the police — I never thought I’d see it again.’

DC Cooper’s team has enjoyed handing back bikes to grateful owners. ‘Some of them were high-end and expensive because of the type of people who work in the City,’ he says. ‘But many were basic, cheaper bikes used by key workers, cleaners, security people and so on, to get to work.

‘It has been satisfying to reunite these owners with their bikes. A lot of the victims have been bringing in chocolates and cards for the team to say thank you. I think it’s because people grow attached to their bikes.’

Duncan Dollimore thinks that other police forces could learn a thing or two from the City of London police’s operation. Meanwhile, the National Police Chiefs’ Council, which represents chief constables, says it is increasingly focused on this type of crime, but positive results have yet to be seen.

Their lead for theft-based crime, Chief Constable Amanda Blakeman says: ‘I understand the disappointment felt by victims when they don’t get the outcome they want through the criminal justice system, or from their local force. Police and prosecutors are working hard to make sure we improve the experience of those affected by this type of criminality.’