She has been celebrating her birthday in style after jetting away for a family holiday in Dubai.

And Amanda Holden gave fans a glimpse of her festivities as she shared a slew of swimwear-clad snaps to Instagram on Saturday.

The mother-of-two put her incredible figure on display in a tiny orange bikini while enjoying a day at the beach, baring her toned abs and cleavage.

She also modelled a white swimsuit with a zippered front, posing for snaps in an infinity pool and sipping on an Aperol Spritz.

Amanda rang in her 53rd birthday on Friday and celebrated by posing for a nude photoshoot.

Amanda Holden put her incredible figure on display in a tiny orange bikini while enjoying a day at the beach, baring her toned abs and cleavage for a sizzling Instagram snap on Saturday

She also modelled a white swimsuit with a zippered front, posing for snaps in an infinity pool and sipping on an Aperol Spritz

The Britain's Got Talent judge looked incredibly youthful in the snap and recently revealed drinking lots of water and avoiding 'people pleasing' is the key to her fresh-faced looks.

She told The Express: 'I drink loads of water because I'm on Heart Breakfast every morning. I don't deny myself anything. I think being happy and confident shines.

'I've got good people around me, I surround myself with good people, and I put my energy into the people who deserve it. I don't try to people please as much as I did anymore.

'I think all of that really helps you feel confident and helps the glow. If you feel good on the inside you will feel good on the outside.'

It's words of wisdom that she'll no doubt be passing onto her daughters Lexi, 18, and Hollie, 12, who have joined her on the holiday.

Lexi looked the spitting image of her mother on Wednesday, as she shared a new bikini-clad snap.

Lexi has often been compared to her famous mum being called her miniature twin thanks to their very similar looks.

And when she took to her Instagram this week to share photos from her sun-soaked getaway, the resemblance was uncanny.

The Britain's Got Talent judge looks incredibly youthful and recently revealed drinking lots of water and avoiding 'people pleasing' is the key to her fresh-faced looks

It's words of wisdom that she'll no doubt be passing onto her daughters Lexi, 18, and Hollie, 12, who have joined her on the holiday

Lexi posed lounging on a sunbed, wearing a red bikini that showed off her toned figure, while shielding her eyes behind oversized shades.

Captioning the photo, she wrote: 'Vitamin D' with a sun emoji as she enjoyed her balmy day on the beach.

The snap was almost identical to one Amanda posted last year, while on holiday in Los Angeles.

The Britain's Got Talent judge flaunted her chiselled abs in a very similar red bikini to Lexi, while lounging by a swimming pool.

She let her identical blonde hair fan out behind her, while also sporting a pair of dark oversized sunglasses.

Amanda has previously admitted to taking inspiration from her daughter and revealed she confiscates some of Lexi's skimpier outfits to keep them for herself to wear.

She told The Mirror: 'There's this sequined... I wouldn't even call it a bikini top. "No, you're not wearing that to Reading Festival, but Mummy can have it", so Mummy's got it, and waiting for a moment to wear it.

'It just about covers the bits up top that you would expect it to cover, but it was definitely not for my daughter.'

Lexi is following in her mother's showbiz footsteps as well, signing with Storm modelling agency in March 2022.

Amanda's eldest daughter Lexi looked the spitting image of her mother on Wednesday as she shared a new bikini-clad snap