Daisy Edgar-Jones looked smitten with boyfriend Ben Seed as they cosied up at Netflix's 2024 BAFTA Awards after-party at Chiltern Firehouse on Sunday.

The couple, who have been dating since the summer, cosied up to one another as they posed for a series of snaps together at the bash.

Daisy, 25, wowed in a plunging mini dress that showed off her incredible figure with its daring neckline and thigh-skimming hem.

The mint green garment was adorned with glittering silver embellishment that complemented her chunky earrings and myriad of rings.

She completed the ensemble with a burgundy cross body bag and pointed toe heels in the same hue.

Daisy Edgar-Jones looked smitten with boyfriend Ben Seed as they cosied up at Netflix 's 2024 BAFTA Awards after-party at Chiltern Firehouse on Sunday

Ben matched his jumper to his partner's accessories, layering up with a smart grey blazer.

The photographer is no stranger to a high profile relationship, having previously dated The Queen's Gambit star Anya Taylor-Joy.

He split up with the blonde beauty ahead of her beating Daisy to the best actress gong at the Golden Globes in 2021.

Meanwhile, Daisy split from Tom Varey in late 2020 after two years of dating.

The Normal People actress is said to be on 'cloud nine' after embarking on a relationship with Ben, who goes by the artist name Pip.

A source told The Sun: 'Daisy and Pip got together earlier this year and have become inseparable.

'They have both had some free time this summer and love hanging out in Broadway Market in East London, just going to bars and spending time together.

'There’s a real spark there and they are excited about finding each other. They’ve already met one another’s friends and she is on cloud nine.'

Daisy, 25, wowed in a plunging mini dress that showed off her incredible figure with its daring neckline and thigh-skimming hem

THE BAFTA WINNERS AT A GLANCE Best Film - Oppenheimer Best Director - Christopher Nolan, Oppenheimer Supporting Actor - Robert Downey Jr, Oppenheimer Leading Actor - Cillian Murphy, Oppenheimer Leading Actress - Emma Stone, Poor Things Supporting Actress - Da'vine Joy Randolph, The Holdovers Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

The biggest night in British film returned with actor David Tennant as host and an array of guest presenters on hand to deliver awards throughout the night.

Prince William attended the ceremony in London solo as his wife Kate Middleton continues her recovery from last month's abdominal surgery.

Oppenheimer won Best Film as well as sweeping the board in the major categories at the EE BAFTA Film Awards at The Royal Festival Hall.

The epic biographical thriller led the wins with seven gongs, including Best Actor for Cillian Murphy, Best Supporting Actor for Robert Downey Jr. and Best Director for Christopher Nolan. It had the most nominations with 13.

Oppenheimer swept up in the big name categories, but it was closely followed by the surreal black comedy Poor Things.

It marked five awards for the film, including Emma Stone collecting the Best Actress gong for her turn as Bella Baxter.

Meanwhile, Da'Vine Joy Randolph crowned victorious in the Best Supporting Actress category for her part in The Holdovers as she continues her march to Oscars glory.

Next up, Director Jonathan Glazer and producer James Wilson's The Zone Of Interest won the BAFTA for Outstanding British Film.

The night kicked off with French legal drama Anatomy Of A Fall winning the Original Screenplay award after premiering in Cannes back in May.

Poor Things won the BAFTA for special visual effects.

The couple, who have been dating since the summer, also attended the EE BAFTA Film Awards but Ben skipped the red carpet

Following this, drama film Earth Mama was honoured with the BAFTA outstanding debut by a British writer, director or producer, presented by David Beckham.

The Zone Of Interest won the BAFTA for a film not in the English language.

The BAFTA for Casting was awarded to Susan Shopmaker for private school-set The Holdovers, while the editing award has gone to Jennifer Lame for Second World War biopic Oppenheimer.

Comedy drama American Fiction won Best Adapted Screenplay.

The Boy And The Heron won the Best Animated Film Bafta.

The Documentary BAFTA went to 20 Days In Mariupol, which highlights the work of Associated Press journalists in the besieged Ukrainian city during the Russian invasion.

The BAFTA for Production Design went to Shona Heath, James Price and Zsuzsa Mihalek for surreal comedy Poor Things, about a woman who is reanimated and begins a new life.

It was previously announced the BAFTA for Outstanding British Contribution to Cinema would go to programmer and archivist June Givanni, founder of the Pan African Film Archive, who collected the prize during the ceremony from Bridgerton star Adjoa Andoh.

Samantha Morton collected the BAFTA Fellowship from producer David Heyman, who she worked with on Fantastic Beasts And Where To Find Them.

The BAFTA Rising Star award was won by Mia Mckenna-Bruce following a public vote.

Margot Robbie, Emily Blunt, Emma Stone and Florence Pugh were among the star-studded arrivals earlier in the evening on the glitzy red carpet.