A large chunk of house hunters are shunning the countryside and returning to the city for better services and amenities.

Property experts said there had been a 'move back' to city living following the so-called 'race for space' during the pandemic when they shunned urban areas in favour of rural and coastal locations following several lockdowns.

Jonathan Rolande, of House Buy Fast, said: 'We've definitely noticed a move back towards city-living which dropped off during the pandemic.

'Between 2020 and 2022 many people were looking to snap up more rural and' remote homes due to the fact employers were really relaxed about work from home.

House hunters are returning to urban locations following the pandemic, according to property experts

He adds: 'Now, with the move back to the office, city properties are firmly back. The challenge of course is being able to afford one. But one consequence of this is that we could see prices of homes outside the city areas dropping.'

He suggested that the move back to the city marked a shift in buyers' attitudes as they sought better services and amenities, such as improved broadband and transport links.

It follows findings published by estate agents Hamptons at the end of last year, which found that the number of Londoners leaving the capital to move elsewhere in Britain dropped significantly in 2023.

At the time, it claimed Londoners were set to spend a total of £28.7billion on homes outside the capital in 2023.

It is a 41 per cent fall - or £20.1billion - from the £48.8billion recorded in 2021 when outmigration peaked.

Some property experts also said there had been a shift among buyers, who were being reminded of the value of city living.

Guy Meacock, of buying agents Prime Purchase, said: 'Being stuck in a flat in the city without a garden during Covid was particularly tough, while there is no point in having all the amenities of city life on your doorstep if you can't access them.

'Those who did it as a slightly knee-jerk reaction are now thinking that it can be lonely in the country, particularly with cities returning to normal with everything opening up again.

'It's an age-old quandary - if you are wealthy enough, the ideal is a foot in both camps - urban excitement and peace and quiet in the country. But most don't have the luxury to afford two boltholes.

'The importance and value of being with people cannot be overstated. If that means less space and a smaller garden, then there is still something to said for it.'

Guy Meacock, of buying agents Prime Purchase, explained that if you are wealthy enough, the ideal is a foot in both property camps - urban excitement, and peace and quiet in the country

Hamptons revealed the number, share and total value of homes bought outside the capital by a Londoner

Meanwhile, North London estate agent Jeremy Leaf, said: 'Many companies are in favour of full-time office working even if there is a reluctance from some workers who have tasted life away from the office desk during the pandemic to commit to being back in the office fully.

'The need to be back in the office more has resulted in an increase in demand for city properties which has inevitably had a knock-on effect on values but not yet that sharply.

'Those who rented out their properties rather than burning their bridges and selling up during Covid have done well because they managed to maintain a hold on values.

'Meanwhile, those who sold up and are trying to get back in are finding it quite difficult, particularly those who took advantage of very low mortgage rates a few years ago when they hit rock bottom.

'Now, they are faced with considerably higher mortgage costs, higher property prices and the higher cost of living.'