Dua Lipa has finally released the music video for her brand new single Training Season, she announced on Thursday.

The hitmaker, 28, took to Instagram to share with fans the exciting news and thanked her 'dream team' for making it come together.

Training Season released on February 15 after months of teasing fans with glimpses of the album cover.

Reflecting the lyrics in the video, 'got me feeling vertigo', Dua was seen surrounded by dozens of people in the video.

Dua showed off her gorgeous red locks in the video whilst she was sat in a cafe surrounded by men looking in through the window.

Dua Lipa has finally released the music video for her brand new single Training Season, she announced on Thursday

Training Season released on February 15 after months of teasing fans with glimpses of the album cover

The music video displayed Dua speed dating, but constantly being left let down by her having to teach them 'how to love her'.

Throughout the whole video, Dua was spinning around to reflect the constant cycle of dating and exhaustion of 'training people to date' properly.

This is the second single Dua has announced from her upcoming album, which releases later this year.

Her first single Houdini marked the first new solo music released by the Grammy-winning artist since her 2020 Future Nostalgia record.

She has since dropped collaborative songs, including her hit feature Dance the Night Away written for Greta Gerwig's Barbie movie.

Speaking of the track, Dua shared: 'I had been on a string of bad dates, and the last one was the final straw.

'The next morning I arrived to the studio to Caroline and Tobias asking me how it all went and I immediately declared "training season is over" and like the best "day after" debriefs with your mates, we had a lot of laughs and it all quickly came together from there.

She added: 'And while it is obviously about that feeling when you are just absolutely done telling people…men specifically in this case and how to date you right, it is also about my training season being over and me growing with every experience.

Reflecting the lyrics in the video, 'got me feeling vertigo', Dua was seen surrounded by dozens of people in the video

Dua showed off her gorgeous red locks in the video whilst she was sat in a cafe surrounded by men

The music video displayed Dua speed dating, but constantly being left let down by her having to teach them 'how to love her'

Throughout the whole video, Dua was spinning around to reflect the constant cycle of dating and exhaustion of 'training people to date' properly

Reflecting the lyrics in the video, 'got me feeling vertigo', Dua was seen surrounded by dozens of people in the video

The hitmaker took to Instagram to share with fans the exciting news and thanked her 'dream team' for making it come together

This is the second single Dua has announced from her upcoming album, which releases later this year

The single about dating ironically comes after she confirmed her new relationship with boyfriend Callum Turner

'I have never felt more confident, clear or empowered. And while it may be that training season is never over for any of us, you start to see the beauty in finding that person to experience it with.

'You stop looking for the trainees and become more interested in having someone where you are and someone to grow with.'

In the video, the star donned an edgy black leather blazer, teamed with a pendant, earrings and ring from Tiffany & Co.

Dua rose to fame with her debut album, Dua Lipa, and her latest album, Future Nostalgia, which just surpassed 10 billion streams.

The single about dating ironically comes after she confirmed her new relationship with boyfriend Callum Turner.

The British actor, 33, and the singer confirmed their relationship after a very public display of affection in Hollywood last month.

Last month, Callum and Dua couldn't keep their hands off each other at a romantic dinner date at Sushi Park.

Callum wrapped his arms around Dua who cupped his face before leaning in for a lingering kiss.

The Houdini singer showed made no attempt to hide from onlookers as she frolicked with the actor on a balcony overlooking the street.