A driver of a US-style pick-up truck has been panned over a massive parking fail at a shopping centre.

The driver of the Ford F-250 took up two parking spaces at the outdoor carpark at a Coles store in southeast Melbourne.

An amused shopper photographed the embarrassing park and shared an image of it to Facebook.

'Should have his own traffic control team riding around in him with the size of that rig,' they wrote.

A motorist has reignited the debate into American style pick up trucks after the driver took up more than one parking bays (pictured) at a carpark

The image showed part of the utility taking up two spaces as the vehicle was too big to fit into a single parking bay.

Social media users were divided with some defending the driver.

One argued the vehicle wouldn't have been able to fit into a single space as parking spots in Australia have not adopted to the size of the massive vehicles.

'Look, it's not their fault that the parks aren't big enough,' they wrote.

'If he tried to park within the lines he'd be wasting his time, [it's] logical to park this way to leave room. Take out 2 parks instead of 3 (sic),' another wrote.

Others chimed in saying drivers don't need to be travelling around in 'huge trucks'.

'Why the hell do you need something this big?' one wrote.

Dozens of Aussies have complained about the size of pick-up trucks as motorists remain deeply divided over the presence of the massive vehicles on Australian roads.

Experts have voiced their opposition to the growing popularity.

Julian O'Shea, who is a researcher in sustainable transport at Monash University, said these vehicles would force public parking spaces to be redesigned.

'The question becomes, how do we use this space?' he told Yahoo.

'If we want to make our carparks bigger, we get fewer of them, we lose space for bike lanes, we lose space for parks, we lose space for shops.'

Mr O'Shea said the American style utes would disrupt traffic in heavily congested areas.

Motorists said that drivers of the trucks don't have much choice other than to take up more parking spaces (pictured) as the size of parking bays in Australia are too small

Aussie motorists remain deeply divided over the presence of US-style pick up trucks on Australian roads (pictured) with experts warning the vehicles cause more congestion

Standards Australia, a not-for-profit group that oversees the development of internationally aligned road and infrastructure standards, has proposed the length of the standard parking space in Australia be increased.

The current size for on-street and off-street parking is currently 2.4m by 5.4m.

Daily Mail Australia contacted Standards Australia for comment.

The popularity of American style pick up trucks has been steadily growing in Australia.

Almost 800 large pick ups were sold across Australia in August 2023 representing close to a 50 per cent increase year-on-year in the sales growth of the vehicles last year.

Despite the growth of the US-styled trucks, passenger vehicles such as sedans, hatchbacks and 4WD's remain the car of choice for tens of thousands of Aussie motorists.

More than 20,000 medium-sized SUV's were sold during the same period.