Cristiano Ronaldo watched from the stands as his teammates secured a 6-0 win

Inter Miami faced Al-Nassr as part of their global preseason tour on Thursday

Inter Miami suffered a humiliating 6-0 defeat in Thursday's preseason friendly against Al-Nassr after conceding three goals inside the first 12 minutes - including one from inside the opposition half.

With Lionel Messi watching on after suffering an injury scare, the MLS side fell 3-0 down in no time against the Saudi outfit - who was without Cristiano Ronaldo. The Portugal icon sat in the stands after being ruled out of the friendly in Riyadh.

The embarrassing start to the game was epitomized by Al-Nassr's third goal, scored by former Manchester City star Aymeric Laporte.

The defender fired a free kick from well inside his own half, which flew over Miami goalkeeper Drake Callender as he scrambled back towards his goal. That made it 3-0.

The home side had earlier taken the lead on three minutes through Portuguese forward Otavio before Brazilian Talisca doubled the lead shortly after.

Lionel Messi watched from the bench as Inter Miami fell 3-0 down to Al-Nassr after 12 minutes

The World Cup winner came on for the final few minutes of a humiliating 6-0 loss on Thursday

Jordi Alba (above), Sergio Busquets and Luis Suarez all started for the MLS club in Saudi Arabia

Cristiano Ronaldo watched from the stands after being ruled out of the preseason friendly

Despite being without Messi, Miami still fielded a starting XI that included Sergio Busquets, Luis Suarez and Jordi Alba.

Tata Martino's side looked to have stopped the early bleeding - the score was still 3-0 at half time - only for Al-Nassr to net three more after the break.

Talisca added a fourth six minutes into the second half. Then, either side of Suarez and Alba being substituted, Al-Nassr completed the rout. First Mohammed Maran made it five before Talisca completed his hattrick with 17 minutes remaining.

The Brazilian then rubbed salt into Miami wounds by performing Ronaldo's trademark celebration.

Messi remained on the bench until the final six minutes. It's claimed he had felt 'discomfort' after playing Al-Hilal and was forced to go for a scan.

Miami are four matches into a gruelling preseason tour, which will see them travel 23,000 miles. Messi and Co still have games in Hong Kong and Japan to come before the new MLS season. The World Cup winner is expected to play at some point during the rest of the tour.

Former Manchester City defender Aymeric Laporte scored from inside his own half