Looking out across Windermere it's easy to see why the literary greats drew inspiration from the breathtaking views. As boats sail up and down and birds fly overhead against the backdrop of rolling hills, one can spend hours soaking it all in.

The Langdale Chase hotel on the shores of the famous lake, synonymous with the likes of author Beatrix Potter and poet William Wordsworth, provides the perfect vantage point. Whether enjoying a book in the reading room, devouring afternoon tea in the conservatory or embarking on a lake cruise, there's plenty to do.

Built as a house in the 1890s, the Grade II listed building - the first residence at Windermere to have electricity - became a hotel in 1930.

Its striking presence was featured in the 1947 Alfred Hitchcock film The Paradine Case and in the 1988 BBC drama Across The Lake, starring Anthony Hopkins.

Hospitality firm Daniel Thwaites bought the boutique hotel in 2017, which reopened in November after a year-long, multi-million pound renovation.

The Scottish Mail on Sunday's Ashlie McAnally checked into Langdale Chase hotel (above)

Ashlie writes: 'The Langdale Chase hotel on the shores of the famous lake, synonymous with the likes of author Beatrix Potter and poet William Wordsworth, provides the perfect vantage point'. Pictured above is the boat house

The bedrooms are 'spacious, comfortable and filled with personal touches, including individually made cakes for each guest and a minibar with beers and fresh milk'

On entering, guests are welcomed into the hall by a roaring fire (in the cold weather) where they check in with a friendly member of staff and sup champagne under stained glass windows on a cosy couch.

There's an Art Deco-style bar, the oak room, the reading room, a two AA Rosette restaurant, a wine cellar, cinema room and conservatory where afternoon tea is served - with more champagne.

In the summer this can be enjoyed on the terrace where guests can watch the sun setting behind the Langdale Pikes.

Attention to detail in both the décor and the food was impressive. The sandwiches, savouries and fancies were a work of art and the afternoon tea was the best I've had (and I've had a few) - worth visiting for even if you are just passing through Windermere.

For those who want to enjoy the sanctuary of the rooms and make the most of the facilities, they are spacious, comfortable and filled with personal touches, including individually made cakes for each guest, minibar with beers and fresh milk, and a coffee machine. The décor is grand and luxurious yet homely and comfortable and the view from the bedroom window showcases the four and a half acre grounds and famous water.

There are 21 rooms in the main house, eight in the modern Lakehouse and one suite in the historical Boat House and most rooms have baths in the ensuite bathrooms.

Warm welcome: A roaring fire in the winter months creates a cosy atmosphere at Langdale Chase

According to Ashlie, 'a visit to the restaurant to enjoy a meal created by head chef Michael Cole is a must'. She adds: 'Guests can choose from Lakeland Dexter beef, crispy oyster and stout, and Goosnargh guinea fowl with wild mushroom'

The décor is 'grand and luxurious yet homely and comfortable and the view from the bedroom window showcases the four and a half acre grounds and famous water'

There are 21 rooms in the main house, eight in the modern Lakehouse and one suite in the historical Boat House and most rooms have baths in the ensuite bathrooms

The hotel is also dog friendly, pets can enjoy the sights of the Lake District and the extensive grounds.

After a day of hiking, clay pigeon shooting or even taking a dip in the lake (for those brave enough), a visit to the restaurant to enjoy a meal created by head chef Michael Cole is a must.

In keeping with the fine-dining experience, guests can choose from Lakeland Dexter beef, crispy oyster and stout, and Goosnargh guinea fowl with wild mushroom.

Award-winning cheese is available as a separate course and for dessert there is a range of sweet treats such as pineapple upside down cake, chocolate delice and passionfruit soufflé, to name just a few.

In the morning guests can enjoy a continental selection of cereal, yoghurt and fruit and plan their day while perusing the menu of cooked options including full breakfast, haddock kedgeree and eggs benedict.