Looking for a quick, equipment-free workout to do in you lunch break at home?

Trainers Vivienne and Mike Addo, AKA MrandMrsMuscle on social media, have devised a 20-minute, bodyweight routine that will sculpt every muscle in your body.

The compound exercises are super efficient as they recruit more muscles than any other type of movement, working them simultaneously.

What's more, the routine, crafted by the pair who have 1.6 million Instagram followers, is challenging enough to get your heart racing - increasing the chance of weight loss.

The workout involves deadlifts with reverse lunges for 45 seconds followed by a 15 second rest

The workout (below) begins with a warm up, which starts with jogging on the spot for 30 seconds while rotating the wrists.

Then, you start some sumo squats with side reaches on alternate sides for 30 seconds.

This is followed by deep squats with the arms moving with full range from the floor to above your head.

This move focuses on your glutes, thighs, abs and shoulders.

Next, do some deadlifts (although without hand weights) with an overhead reach for another 30 seconds.

Step back on one leg and at the same time, lean back with your arms pointing up to the sky and slightly behind you.

Then step to bring your feet together, and reach down to the ground in front of you, trying to keep your spine as straight as possible and your knees only slightly bent.

Then repeat on the other leg.

Now you are warmed up, the workout involves doing an exercise for 45 seconds and then a 15 second rest in between.

The first exercise is a drop squat: jump your legs into a squat, while reaching down with one arm to let your fingers touch the floor. Try to keep your back straight.

Do this for 45 seconds, which will get your thighs, abs glutes, hamstrings and back working.

Then, it's on to alternate lateral lunges.

Begin standing up with your feet together, then step out to the side, bending the leg you stepped out on and keeping your other one straight. Alternate between legs.

Next up is deadlifts with reverse lunges, followed by modified jumping jacks. Instead of jumping out, step each leg out to the side.

Then, it's push ups, which can be done on your knees if necessary.

Following this is a back extension variation, where you lie on your front and come up into a sphinx position.

Next is a 'dead bug', where you lie on your back with your knees bent in the air and arms pointing straight up.

Then, you lower and stretch out one leg and the alternate arm at the same time. Repeat using the other arm and leg.

Next up is plank toe-touch, followed by oblique twists.

You can then take a 30-second rest while you grab a drink of water and wipe away your sweat.

Then, repeat the exercises one more time through.

Studies have shown that compound exercises are highly effective for building strength in record time, as well as maximizing the number of calories burned - and improving cardiovascular health.