YouTuber Nonstop Eurotrip was one of the first to board, travelling over 1,000km from Vienna to Hamburg

Austria's new generation of Nightjet sleeper trains that feature quirky 'pod'-style cabins for single travellers have launched for the paying public.

And the reviews are in, with one YouTuber declaring that he is a 'huge fan of this new innovation'.

Austria's national railway company, ÖBB, unveiled the revamped and redesigned Nightjet in October, as we reported, with the new trains entering service on Sunday, December 10.

The 'ultra-modern' solo cabins include a movable folding table with an integrated mirror, coat hooks, a reading lamp, and adjacent lockers for hand luggage and shoes.

YouTuber and travel expert Nonstop Eurotrip travelled over 1,000km (621 miles) from Vienna to Hamburg, Germany in one of the new 'pods', declaring it the 'most innovative idea in sleeper trains for 100-plus years'.

Austria's new generation of Nightjet sleeper trains that feature quirky 'pod'-style cabins for single travellers have launched for the paying public

Austria's national railway company, ÖBB, unveiled the revamped and redesigned Nightjet in October, as we reported, with the new trains entering service on Sunday, December 10. Above is a solo pod cabin

The image above shows how the new pod cabins are arranged throughout the carriage

YouTuber and travel expert Nonstop Eurotrip travelled over 1,000km (621 miles) from Vienna to Hamburg, Germany, in one of the new 'pods' (left and right). He declared it the 'most innovative idea in sleeper trains for 100-plus years

The YouTuber went on to say of the journey: 'I'm a huge fan of this new innovation. I was more than happy to spend the night in one of these pods with their excellent comfort and privacy.

'It feels really spacious as long as you're not too tall.

'The mattress and pillow are both very comfortable.'

Joining the train's inaugural journey, the Youtuber could only find one small downside, musing that the 'doors don't have a locked open position', meaning that once inside you can't easily keep the door at the open position.

As well as the innovative solo pods, the new-generation formations, totalling 33 sets, comprise extensively redesigned sleeping cars that accommodate one to two people and couchettes that sleep up to four.

The pod cabin comes complete with lockers for hand luggage and a space for shoes

As well as the innovative solo pods, the new-generation formations, totalling 33 sets, comprise extensively redesigned sleeping cars that accommodate one to two people and couchettes that sleep up to four

The sleeping cars boast private bathrooms - complete with a shower - and a 'comfortable' seating area so travellers can work, read or eat during the journey.

Each new Nightjet is also fitted with a 'modern' accessible couchette compartment, for use by up to two wheelchair users and an accompanying person. A barrier-free toilet is also accessible via a low-floor entrance.

There are more storage options, too, with six bicycle parking spaces for cycling enthusiasts as well as more space for luggage, strollers and sports equipment.

The new generation trains have capacity for 254 passengers in seven-carriage formations made up of two seating cars, three couchette cars and two sleeping cars.

One of the Nightjet's most thrilling journeys connects Vienna's Hauptbahnhof station with Paris's Gare de l'Est, a 14-hour ride.

Mark Smith, creator of the acclaimed Man in Seat 61 website, said: 'The Paris-Berlin Nightjet restores a key link between east and west and it's going to be popular - it's already sold out for Friday and various other dates.

Climate-conscious travellers are turning to rail for increasingly long distances, and they're rediscovering what some of us have never forgotten - a 12-hour overnight journey while you sleep is far more time-effective than a seven-hour high-speed daytime journey, or even, perhaps, five daytime hours of airports and flight.'

Nightjet's sleeping quarters have undergone an extensive redesign. Above is the revamped four-berth couchette

The redesigned sleeping cars boast private bathrooms - complete with a shower - and a 'comfortable' seating area so travellers can work, read or eat during the journey

WHERE YOU CAN TRAVEL WITH NIGHTJET These destinations can be reached on the Nightjet service or via its partner railway system 'EuroNight Trains'. AUSTRIA: Vienna, Salzburg, Linz, Graz and Innsbruck. SWITZERLAND: Zurich and Basel. GERMANY: Hamburg, Berlin, Cologne, Frankfurt, Düsseldorf, Munich and Stuttgart. ITALY: Florence, Rome, Verona, Lake Garda, Milan, Venice, Bologna, Genua and La Spezia & Cinque Terre. BELGIUM: Brussels. NETHERLANDS: Amsterdam and Utrecht. FRANCE: Paris and Strasbourg. CROATIA: Zagreb and Split. Source: Nightjet Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/travel/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Leonore Gewessler, Austria's Minister for Climate Action, said: 'Traveling by train means protecting the climate. This is especially true for the night train.'

She said that passengers can 'board in Vienna in the evening and wake up refreshed the next morning in another European metropolis'.

ÖBB CEO Andreas Matthä commented: 'We are consistently continuing to expand our night train fleet and will continue to play a pioneering role in night train traffic in Europe in the future. With our new, ultra-modern Nightjets, we impress with more comfort and privacy that clearly focus on the needs of passenger.'

Starting prices for ÖBB's Nightjet sleeper trains: Seating - €34.90 (£29.99); couchette - €54.90 (£47.17); sleeper double - €99.90 (£85.83); sleeper single - €199 (£170.98). To book visit: www.oebb.at/en.

To see more of Nonstop Eurotrip's videos head to www.youtube.com/@NonstopEurotrip.

The Nightjet route map. Some of the destinations are reached with the help of Nightjet's partner railway system, 'EuroNight Trains'