Tahlia West was turned away from medical professionals time and again when she complained about her array of painful symptoms.

She had chronic dizziness, fatigue, a declining memory, and a never-ending stream of migraines - yet the best diagnosis doctors could come up with was a persistent ear infection.

But after going back and forth with specialists for almost a year, Tahlia finally received a diagnosis: a rare pituitary tumour called a Rathke Cleft Cyst was pressing on the base of her skull.

It is incurable but she will be okay if the tumour doesn't grow. If it does, there's nothing she can do about the resulting symptoms.

The 27-year-old therapist from Melbourne revealed that she is sometimes overcome with such extreme fatigue that she falls asleep in the middle of a task.

'I always feel a lot of pressure inside my head,' Tahlia told FEMAIL. 'It's like someone has wrapped elastic bands around my skull and they're too tight.'

Tahlia West was turned away from medical professionals time and again when she complained about her array of painful symptoms

In the interim of waiting for doctor's appointments and test results, Tahlia's symptoms only got worse.

'I suddenly had a really bad memory,' she said. 'I'd forget the most basic things one day - and the next I'd be fine.

'I didn't really get to dwell on it much because there was always something else going on, like my migraines.

'The pain is always the worst in the morning and late at night. It's sometimes accompanied by these hot and cold flashes and bouts of blurry vision I couldn't understand,' she explained.

Chronic dizziness, fatigue, a declining memory, and a never-ending stream of migraines - yet the best diagnosis doctors could come up with was a persistent ear infection

Tahlia became very good at identifying her triggers and steering clear of actions she knew would ignite episodes of pain.

She believes her GP originally suspected her ailment was an ear infection because she experienced sudden loss of hearing on one side and had a 'wet' feeling in her ear.

'He said it was creating all the other symptoms so he sent me to a specialist, which took a few months.

'But the specialist told me nothing was wrong with my ears and sent me on my way.'

The 27-year-old therapist from Melbourne [pictured left] revealed that she is sometimes overcome with such extreme fatigue that she falls asleep in the middle of a task

Tahlia was especially perturbed because she had suffered from ear infections her whole life and knew her symptoms were a sign of something more sinister.

'Why are they telling me nothing is wrong when I clearly feel sick?' she recalled thinking.

Tahlia went back to her doctor who was now focused on solving the problem.

In the interim of waiting for doctor's appointments and test results, Tahlia's symptoms only got worse

'I really felt like he cared about me - we tested for lots of things including diabetes.

'The light bulb moment came when I revealed that I couldn't bend over without my head pounding.'

After being sent for an MRI, the doctors found an intercranial mass in Tahlia's head.

'I was in denial about it for a while,' Tahlia admitted. 'I didn't want to believe it. Even when I told my partner about it I tried to brush it off.

'I think it finally set in when I told my parents - that's the first time I was scared.

'Knowing there was something growing on my brain was so overwhelming and terrifying, and I hated that I had to wait a few months to see a neurosurgeon.'

She then had to go through more scans, check ups, eye exams, MRIs, and blood tests.

READ MORE: Young woman reveals the three symptoms doctors ignored for months before she was diagnosed with stage 4 cancer just before her 24th birthday Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/femail/femailhealth/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

'After all of that, the doctor said to me "it's there, I can do surgery, but at this point in time the risks outweigh what's going on now - it'll make everything worse".'

While Rathke Cleft Cysts are often asymptomatic, on rare occasions patients are known to present with Tahlia's issues and even lose their vision due to the flow of oxygen to the occipital lobe being restricted.

'I cried then and I was scared because I didn't understand a lot of it. I felt very alone. My condition is very rare, and not many doctors know about it,' Tahlia added.

'It was very frustrating, and there's no treatment they can give me for it.'

But despite that, Tahlia chose to take a positive outlook on the situation and do the best she could with what she had.

She did a lot of research online about the condition and tried to find online support groups - of which there was only one on Facebook.

'There's really nothing doctors can do for it. I just go back for scans every three months so that they can monitor the cyst.'

Tahlia shared that she was grateful for her family and friends who act as her support system

Tahlia shared that she was grateful for her family and friends who act as her support system.

'Everyone around me is so wonderful, I'm really blessed,' she said. 'My parents, grandparents, partner, mother-in-law - someone always comes to appointments with me.

'If I'm having a particularly bad day, I know I can always close my eyes and my partner will take care of the house. It's the little things that really matter.

'My mum has been helping me research the tumour as well, and it's really assuring to know for sure one of them will come over to keep an eye on me when I'm sick.'

Despite the diagnosis, Tahlia is determined to keep her head up and look on the bright side.

'I really don't like self pity and I don't want my condition to impact my life more than it has to. I still work and study full-time, but I take days off if I need them.

'Besides that, even if I'm in a lot of pain, I live my life as normally as possible.'

Tahlia shared that her hobbies went a long way in terms of keeping her sane during difficult periods.

She enjoys shopping, going on dates with her partner, and frequenting the gym.

Tahlia shared that her hobbies keep her sane during difficult periods

Tahlia has been doing her best to look to the future and focus on her ten-year plan.

'I want children and pets some day,' she said. 'My partner and I really want to have kids in the future. It's very scary, but I don't think it's worse than how a normal person without tumours would feel.'

She started sharing her story online and posting about her brain cysts on social media to spread awareness about the tumour.

'I don't want them to pity me, I want them to recognise when something is wrong and seek medical help. By sharing the warning signs, I've been able to create a community and make friends who are in the same boat as me.'

Several people have taken their symptoms to doctors and been diagnosed because of Tahlia's posts and videos.

'Talking to people online and keeping them updated on my journey is how I cope with my illness,' she said.

Tahlia is presently partaking in a clinical trial for migraines in an attempt to manage her symptoms because she'd been taking Panadol and Neurofen every single day.