Melbourne fans braved the cold weather and turned out to greet Taylor Swift as she arrived Down Under ahead of her sell-out Eras Australian Tour.

The group of dedicated fans waved banners, snapped photos and cheered as the 34-year-old megastar touched down in her private jet at 1am on Thursday.

Images showed teenage Swifties standing on a fence to grab a better view of the Cruel Summer singer.

A pair of young fans could be seen being held up by their friends to stop them from falling off the narrow barrier amidst all the excitement.

One of the female fans held a cardboard sign that read 'I heart you Taylor, welcome to Australia.'

Melbourne fans braved the cold weather and turned out to greet Taylor Swift as she arrived Down Under ahead of her sell-out Eras Australian Tour. Pictured: Taylor Swift

Meanwhile, an image has emerged showing a pair of determined Swifties huddling together under a blanket in order to beat Melbourne's chilly 14-degree weather on Friday.

The photo showed the pair of determined young fans shivering out doors while a parent looks on from the warmth of her car.

Taylor travelled in style on board a Bombardier Global 6000, a luxurious private jet that can carry up to 17 passengers.

The group of dedicated fans waved banners, snapped photos and cheered as the 34-year-old megastar touched down in her private jet at 1am on Thursday (pictured)

She was promptly escorted to her accommodation after her 12 hour flight where she will rest until she takes to the stage in front of 85,000 screaming fans at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Friday.

The performance will kick off the first of Taylor's seven sold out shows in Australia.

Taylor's flight (VJT993) from Honolulu, Hawaii, to Melbourne became the globe's most-tracked flight with almost 1,500 of her eager fans watching its trek across the Pacific.

One of the female fans held a cardboard sign that read 'I heart you Taylor, welcome to Australia'

The singer will have less than two days to get over her jet lag before she will storm the stage for her first Australian show since 2018.

Taylor - who is dating Kansas Chiefs tight end Travis Kelce - completely missed out on Valentine's Day due to her travels, being airborne for the entire romantic day.

She took off in Hawaii at 4.52pm local time on February 13, and didn't land until the early hours on February 15 AEDT due to the 21-hour time difference, meaning she missed the big day.

A pair of determined Swifites huddle together under a blanket in order to beat Melbourne's 14-degree weather on Friday as they wait to catch a glimpse of Taylor (pictured)

But she had just spent a few days with her boyfriend Travis in Los Angeles as she celebrated with him after he won the NFL Super Bowl, before jetting off Down Under.

Excitement is already building for her Australian Eras tour as thousands of Swifties are ready to crowd into the Melbourne Cricket Ground from February 16 to 18 and the Accor Stadium in Sydney from February 23 to 26 for her shows.

More than 600,000 tickets have been sold for her performances, and some fans are going to the desperate measure of chartering their own flights to get to her shows, according to travel agency Flight Centre.