Immerse yourself in the Maldives’ idyllic beauty, indulge in luxurious Dubai and experience the tranquillity of coastal Thailand with our guide to the top holiday spots in Asia.

Join us as we explore each destination and recommend some superb hotels along the way.

From overwater bungalows to vibrant city escapes, your perfect stay is just a click away with TUI.

Read more: Find a long-haul holiday deal

5 fabulous hotels in Asia

Maldives

Photo: TUI

The Maldives, a tropical paradise in the Indian Ocean, boasts 26 idyllic atolls with crystal-clear turquoise waters and vibrant coral reefs.

Comprising over 1,000 small coral islands, it’s renowned for luxurious overwater bungalows, white sand beaches and diverse marine life. Its rich biodiversity offers a magical experience for snorkelers and divers.

Things to do in the Maldives

Soak up the sun at Gulhi Beach

Enjoy a unique dining experience at the Ithaa Undersea Restaurant

Take a stroll through the luscious Sultan Park

Where to stay

Located on the private island of Maafushi, The Riu Atoll epitomises luxury with its overwater villas perched over the mesmerising ocean. The resort effortlessly combines elegance, comfort and serenity thanks to its breathtaking backdrop and four-star service.

Guests can indulge in delicious meals at one of the on-site restaurants including a steakhouse, Italian spot and buffet-style restaurant. Plus, don’t miss the array of water activities on offer or a trip to the wellness centre for some R&R.

Dubai, United Arab Emirates

Photo: TUI

A glittering metropolis, Dubai is a dazzling blend of futuristic architecture, opulent luxury and ancient Middle Eastern Culture.

From the iconic Burj Khalifa to the extravagant shopping malls and sun-soaked beaches, there’s plenty to do and admire when amid this desert landscape. And beyond the city's glamour, traditional markets (including the famous gold and spice souks) offer a glimpse into Dubai’s rich heritage.

A melting pot of cultures and experiences, this dynamic city is ideal for those seeking a completely unique adventure.

Things to do in Dubai

Shop ‘til you drop at Dubai Mall

Stop to smell the flowers at the Dubai Miracle Garden

Wander through the historic Al Fahidi neighbourhood

Where to stay

Nestled in the vibrant heart of Dubai’s Marina, this chic hotel boasts its own private beach, a rooftop cocktail bar and an impressive seven different dining spots to choose from. Other facilities include an outdoor pool, kids’ club and spa — offering something to keep every guest entertained.

You’re also positioned close to a shopping mall and various restaurants, ideal for exploring the local area.

Like all of Hilton’s offerings, you can expect a supreme quality of service here. Staff are attentive and helpful, which really is the cherry on top of your exotic getaway.

Khao Lak, Thailand

Photo: TUI

For a spot off the beaten track, we love Khao Lak in Thailand. The series of villages boasts serene beaches, lush landscapes and a harmonious blend of tranquillity and adventure.

Nestled on the southwest coast, this gem is ideal for couples, families or even scuba diving enthusiasts — visibility in the clear waters can reach up to 30 metres on certain days.

As well as gorgeous beaches, Khao Lak offers national parks which are ideal for explorers. The local towns — while not as busy as spots like Phuket (which can be a blessing!) — still offer an exciting range of restaurants and bars.

For authentic Thailand, you really can’t go wrong.

Things to do in Khao Lak

While away the day at Coconut Beach

Admire the Ton Chong Fa Waterfall

Get up close and personal with the wildlife at Tongdee Elephant Camp

Where to stay

A completely unique resort with a beachfront location, the JW Marriott is a stylish spot surrounded by a winding pool.

The luxurious rooms are modern and fresh, and come with Oriental-inspired decor and furnishings. If you’re seeking true indulgence, you can even upgrade to a swim-up room so you’re never far from the water.

The hotel also boasts several bars and restaurants as well as a traditional Quan Spa and various entertainment options.

Beruwala, Sri Lanka

Photo: TUI

Is relaxing on holiday your priority?

Then you’ll adore the large town of Beruwala, just south of the capital city, Colombo. The town is home to gorgeous beaches, authentic food markets, a 12th-century Buddhist temple and options for day trips for those who fancy an excursion.

Beruwala’s warm hospitality coupled with cultural richness, creates an unforgettable experience for those seeking a vacation full of nature, tradition and relaxation.

Things to do in Beruwala

Discover the hidden gem that is the Brief Garden

Enjoy the ocean at Beruwala Beach

Embark on a day trip to the renowned Walled City of Galle

Where to stay

Most visitors of Beruwala spend their time either by the beach or the hotel. For those who don’t want to venture too far from their accommodation, The Eden is a fabulous spot.

It offers an outdoor pool surrounded by palm trees, three dining spaces as well as a range of bars and an Ayurveda Spa which offers aromatherapy and other treatments.

The rooms are comfortable and modern — ideal for lounging and resting.

Bali, Indonesia

Photo: TUI

Bali mesmerises all travellers with its diverse landscapes and vibrant culture.

Volcanic mountains provide a dramatic backdrop to lush rice terrains while idyllic beaches beckon surfers and sun-seekers.

The town of Ubud (a must-visit destination), is bursting with culture thanks to its temples and traditional art offerings and includes monkey forests for more adventurous travellers.

And finally, serene retreats and lively markets offer different perspectives of gorgeous Bali.

For those looking to make their money go further, Bali is an excellent option; dinners out and spa treatments are a lot cheaper than is typical in the UK.

Things to do in Bali

Enjoy a unique day out at the Sacred Monkey Forest Sanctuary

Embrace the spiritual with a trip to Uluwatu Temple

Watch the sunrise from Mount Batur

Where to stay

A five-star resort that exudes luxury, this spot is home to a lagoon-style pool as well as restaurants, bars and grills.

The opulent on-site spa offers a plethora of treatments including a chocolate bath (yes, really), Balinese massages and body wraps.

You’ll be a stone’s throw from the beach and surrounded by peaceful tropical gardens. You’re also not far from Nusa Dua’s shopping and dining hubs.

So, where to first?

From resorts in the Maldives to luxury Dubai hotels and dreamy accommodations in Bali, TUI’s offerings across Asia are some of the best around.

Book a trip today for guaranteed sunshine and a relaxing time, no matter the destination.

Explore Asia with TUI

Did you like this article? For more great deals and shopping ideas, find us now on your favourite social networks: Facebook, Instagram and Pinterest!

The pricing information presented above is accurate as of 06/02/2024. We are not responsible for any changes to it. This article is paid for by TUI. When you make a purchase, we may earn a commission.