The British Museum showed 'zero respect' by hosting a London Fashion week show in front of the Elgin Marbles, Greece's culture minister has said.

Models posed in front of the ancient artefacts as they debuted pieces from designer Erdem Moralioglu's Autumn/Winter 2024 collection in the Duveen Gallery at the London-based museum on Saturday.

The controversial fashion show, attended by actress Lily James and Vogue editor-in-chief Anna Wintour, left Greek Minister of Culture Linda Mendoni outraged.

Dr Mendoni, who has campaigned for the artefacts to be returned to Athens, expressed her anger late on Saturday and accused museum bosses of 'trivialising' and 'insulting' the value of the marbles.

The sculptures were taken from the Parthenon temple at the Acropolis in Greece in the early 19th century by British diplomat Thomas Bruce, the earl of Elgin.

The fashion show marks the latest controversy in the row between the Greek and UK governments over the ownership of the Elgin Marbles.

Actress Lily James poses in front of the Parthenon Marbles, also known as the Elgin Marbles, at the British Museum prior to Erdem Autumn/Winter 2024 collection fashion show on Saturday

Vogue editor-in-chief and Conde Nast Artistic Director Anna Wintour (C) sits in front of the Elgin Marbles at the fashion show on Saturday

Mr Moralioglu chose the impressive setting of the Athens Parthenon sculptures showroom at the British Museum to present the autumn winter 2024 collection of his eponymous brand Erdem, inspired by Greek singer Maria Callas and her interpretation of the opera Medea in 1953.

But Dr Mendoni argued that the show proves that the museum has 'zero respect' for the artefacts and they should be returned to Greece.

'By organising a fashion show in the halls where the Parthenon Sculptures are exhibited, the British Museum, once again, proves its zero respect for the masterpieces of Pheidias,' she said in a statement.

'The directors of the British Museum trivialise and insult not only the monument but also the universal values that it transmits.'

Dr Mendoni added: 'The conditions of display and storage of the sculptures, at the Duveen Gallery, are constantly deteriorating. It is time for the stolen and abused sculptural masterpieces to shine in the Attic light.'

Sources close to the museum reportedly hit back, noting to the Telegraph how Dior had a photo shoot at the Acropolis in 2021.

Dr Mendoni was allegedly involved with the permissions for the shoot, which was accompanied by a show at Panathenaic Stadium.

Lily James poses in front of the Elgin Marbles at the British Museum prior to Erdem Autumn/Winter 2024 collection fashion show during London Fashion Week

Greek Minister of Culture Linda Mendoni (not pictured) was outraged by the show, alleging it demonstrated that the British Museum has 'zero respect' for the ancient sculptures

Dior paid around €700,000 for permits to conduct the shoot and €200,000 for lost earnings for closing the site early, according to the newspaper.

The culture minister, however, said there was 'no fashion show' at the Acropolis because the request to hold one was denied by the ministry. She said the show was instead held at Panathenaic Stadium after 'negotiation'.

She also noted that the Acropolis shoot featured a collection 'inspired by ancient Greece' that was made collaboration with local artists.

She argued that the Elgin Marbles were used in the Erdem show were 'merely decoration' and that the 'collection had no dialectical connection to Greek antiquity'.

'The Parthenon Sculptures were used only as backdrop and hence their universal value, which the British Museum claims to be so concerned about, was utterly minimised,' Dr Mendoni added.

MailOnline has approached the British Museum for comment.

Athens maintains the marbles, which are a major draw for visitors at London's British Museum, were stolen, while the UK claims they were obtained legally.

The 1963 British Museum Act prohibits the removal of objects from the institution's collection.

The sculptures (pictured) were taken from the Parthenon temple at the Acropolis in Greece in the early 19th century by British diplomat Thomas Bruce, the earl of Elgin

Athens maintains the marbles, which are a major draw for visitors at London's British Museum, were stolen, while the UK claims they were obtained legally

But officials at the museum, which is under pressure to repatriate other foreign antiquities, have not ruled out a possible loan deal.

Late November, a diplomatic spat raised eyebrows when Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis expressed his 'displeasure' over UK counterpart Rishi Sunak's last minute cancellation of a bilateral meeting set to discuss their long-running dispute over the Parthenon Marbles.

At issue for London was the Greek leader's comments in a BBC interview a day before the meeting about ownership of the 2,500-year-old marbles.

Sunak was allegedly angry about Mitsotakis's comments that having some of the marbles in London and others in Athens was like cutting the Mona Lisa in half.