My time is coming to an end with Royal Challengers Bangalore and it's been an extremely frustrating six weeks but an experience I won't forget and have learned a lot from.

I really struggled with injuries during the second half of the IPL, first picking up a hamstring which ruled me out of two games.

After recovering I then pulled up with a sore back and had an MRI which luckily showed no major damage so I began rehabbing that.

Tymal Mills is coming towards the end of his debut season in the Indian Premier League

The RCB medical staff have been great and kept in constant touch with both Sussex and the ECB in deciding which avenues to take to get me back on the park.

I went to Dubai for a few days to take my mind off of the injury and on my return I was feeling really good and confident of playing in our last two or three matches until, on literally the last ball of my fitness test, I tweaked my hamstring again - no luck!

So I sit here rehabbing again and while it's nothing serious it's bad enough to keep me from playing.

The England bowler has struggled with frustrating injuries throughout the campaign

I am doing my best to feature in our last game away at Delhi on Sunday so I can at very least contribute to the team one last time before I head home.

I've kept attending the home games and staying as involved as I can while soaking up all I can from both India and the IPL.

The passion for the game is really unlike anything you will find anywhere in the world. We've had several sponsor and fan interaction events and the response, while often chaotic, is overwhelming.

Especially because we have some of the genuine stars of the game in our side.

Royal Challengers Bangalore have not reached the knock-out stage of the competition

The big disappointment is that we won only two of our 13 group games which nobody, myself included, expected but that's just how sport goes sometimes.

The level of competition is so strong and every team is packed with superstars so there really is no such thing as an easy game.

Once you get on a bad run of form, as we obviously did, it's hard to get out of. One thing I must say however is the support we received from the fans and everyone associated with the franchise was unwavering.

Every match was sold out and we never once received a stern word from those above which has been the case with other franchises I have been involved with.

While I was only able to play in five (hopefully six) matches out here I am pleased with how I have performed and felt like I was growing into the tournament nicely which bodes well for my confidence if I get picked up again next year.

Mills is looking forward to returning home in time for England's summer T20 fixtures

This concludes my winter of cricket where I have played over 30 T20 matches in five countries since November. I've been extremely lucky as I've got to travel all over the world, meeting some great people and seeing some amazing places along the way.

I feel my cricket has improved immensely as playing against the best players in the world consistently forces you to be on your game at all times otherwise you just don't survive.

I am now looking forward to having some time off, catching up with friends and family and letting my body recover. I'll still be watching the remainder of the IPL as I'll be commentating on the final for Sky a week on Sunday!

England began their summer schedule with a one-day international series win over Ireland

Next up for me cricket wise are hopefully three T20i's against South Africa at the end of June, if selected, which will be a great challenge and then I'm really looking forward to pulling my Sussex shirt back on and playing in the T20 Blast.

The boys have made a good start in the 50 over competition so hopefully it's the beginning of a great summer.

That's it from me! I hope you've enjoyed my ramblings and I hopefully I've given you an insight into life at the IPL through the ups and downs. Thank you for reading. Tymal

Tymal Mills was writing for Sportsmail to support the Matt Hobden Trust.