US POLITICS: LATEST NEWS, COMMENTS AND BREAKING STORIES

White House tried to stop Alejandro Mayorkas calling southern border migration surge a 'crisis' and considered firing the now-impeached DHS secretary, new report reveals Alejandro Mayorkas is one of Republicans most loathed members of President Joe Biden's administration - becoming last week only the second-ever cabinet secretary impeached in U.S. history. A new report Saturday includes officials detailing how the White House tried to stop the Homeland Security Secretary from calling the migration surge over the southern border a 'crisis.' And three officials, according to the New Yorker report, claim it was floated in late spring 2023 that Mayorkas be fired to help reset the administration's messaging over the southern border....read White House tried to stop Mayorkas calling migration a 'crisis'

Rashida Tlaib encourages voters to cast 'uncommitted' vote in Michigan primary to protest Joe Biden backing Israel Rep. Rashida Tlaib is getting behind the pro-Palestinian effort to get Michigan Democrats to vote 'uncommitted' in the primary instead of casting their primary ballot for President Joe Biden. Rashida Tlaib urges protest vote against Joe Biden in Michigan primary

Tim Scott says Nikki Haley and her family are getting 'desperate' Tim Scott says 2024 hopeful Nikki Haley is getting so 'desperate' to win South Carolina's primary that she is deploying her son Nalin, 22, to stoop to name-calling. Tim Scott says Nikki Haley and her family are getting 'desperate'

Nikki Haley is getting DESPERATE, Trump surrogate Tim Scott says in response to the 2024 hopeful's son calling him 'Senator Judas' Tim Scott says 2024 hopeful Nikki Haley is getting so 'desperate' to win South Carolina's primary that she is deploying her son Nalin, 22, to stoop to name-calling. Tim Scott says Nikki Haley is 'desperate' after son called him Judas

Ronald Reagan's daughter Patti Davis thinks older presidential candidates like Trump and Biden should receive cognitive testing Ronald Reagan's daughter Patti Davis thinks that presidential candidates of advanced age, like Donald Trump and Joe Biden, should be administered cognitive tests. Reagan's daughter thinks older candidates should get cognitive tests

Haley slams Trump for 'siding' with Putin after death of Navalny Nikki Haley is calling out Trump for 'bone-chilling' response to Russian President Vladimir Putin's rising aggression amid speculation he ordered the killing of political rival Alexei Navalny. Haley slams Trump for 'siding' with Putin after death of Navalny

Nikki Haley slams Donald Trump for 'siding' with Russian President Vladimir Putin killing his political rival by remaining silent on Alexei Navalny's death Nikki Haley is calling out Trump for 'bone-chilling' response to Russian President Vladimir Putin's rising aggression amid speculation he ordered the killing of political rival Alexei Navalny. Haley says Trump 'sided' with Putin for silence on Navalny's death

Judge Engoron says Trump 'borders on pathological' for business errors Judge Arthur Engoron blasted Donald Trump and his team for their 'refusal to admit error,' saying their refusal to acknowledge mistakes 'borders on pathological.' Judge Engoron says Trump 'borders on pathological' for business errors

Trump must decide whether to liquidate assets to pay $355m award Former President Donald Trump is facing a cash crunch now that Judge Arthur Engoron ordered him to pay $355 million as punishment in his New York fraud case. Trump must decide whether to liquidate assets to pay $355m award

A toxic cup of Joe? Biden drinks coffee made with the tap water from East Palestine a year after the chemical spill as resident tells Daily Mail why she was HAPPY to see the Democrat visit President Joe Biden on Friday offered a full throated endorsement of clean-up efforts in Ohio a year after a devastating toxic spill: He drank tap water and coffee during his visit to East Palestine . Joe Biden drinks the water in East Palestine after major clean-up

The properties Trump may have to sell off to cover $350M fraud verdict including Trump Tower his golf courses and his New York estate Donald Trump has long touted his vast real estate holdings, but the embattled former president now faces losing control of his vast property empire as a verdict is reached in the blockbuster civil fraud trial. Judge Arthur Engoron ordered Trump pay more than $350 million on Friday in the New York civil fraud case. The inflated property values that got Trump slapped with $350M penalty

Biden arrives in East Palestine a year after toxic train disaster More than a year after a train carrying toxic chemicals derailed in rural Ohio, forcing thousands of residents to flee, Joe Biden arrived in the village of East Palestine on Friday afternoon. Biden arrives in East Palestine a year after toxic train disaster

Trump lawyer calls verdict 'manifest injustice, plain and simple' Trump Lawyer Alina Habba slammed the devastating ruling that the former president pay a whopping $355 million in the New York civil fraud trail. Trump lawyer calls verdict 'manifest injustice, plain and simple'

Nikki Haley tears into Trump for defending Putin Republican presidential candidate Nikki Haley tore into former President Donald Trump for previously defending Russian President Vladimir Putin. Nikki Haley tears into Trump for defending Putin

Trump lawyer Alina Habba calls fraud verdict ''manifest injustice, plain and simple': Attorney who stood by his side says rule is a 'signal to every single American that New York is no longer open for business' Trump Lawyer Alina Habba slammed the devastating ruling that the former president pay a whopping $355 million in the New York civil fraud trail, dealing a crushing blow to the man who has long touted his vast real estate empire. Trump lawyer calls verdict ''manifest injustice, plain and simple'

Trump is fined $364 million in New York civil fraud trial It followed an explosive months-long trial to determine how much money Trump and his business should hand over. Trump is fined $364 million in New York civil fraud trial

Republicans raise the alarm on Russia-North Korea arms transfers A group of lawmakers is sounding the alarm to the State Department about arms transfers between North Korea and Russia. Republicans raise the alarm on Russia-North Korea arms transfers

Joe Biden suddenly freezes while attacking Trump President Joe Biden froze at the podium Friday as he tried to think of a way to insult former President Donald Trump for inviting Russia to invade NATO allies. Joe Biden suddenly freezes while attacking Trump

Screaming Biden tears into Congress for going on two-week vacation before approving billions more in aid to Ukraine and asks 'what are they thinking?' President Biden brutally mocked the House for skipping town for two weeks without doing anything to advance a foreign aid package. Screaming Biden tears into Congress for going on two-week vacation before approving billions more in aid to Ukraine and asks 'what are they thinking?'

Joe Biden suddenly FREEZES while attacking Trump: President takes a bizarrely long pause while thinking of a way to insult his rival for inviting Russia to invade NATO allies President Joe Biden froze at the podium Friday as he tried to think of a way to insult former President Donald Trump for inviting Russia to invade NATO allies. Joe Biden suddenly FREEZES while attacking Trump

Biden blames Putin for Alexei Nalvany's death President Joe Biden placed blame for Alexei Navalny's death squarely on Russian President Vladimir Putin - and froze up when trying to articulate an attack on former President Donald Trump. Biden blames Putin for Alexei Nalvany's death

Biden demands that impeachment proceedings against him be 'dropped' Joe Biden on Friday demanded that impeachment proceedings against him be dropped after a key witness was charged with fabricating a multimillion-dollar bribery scheme. Biden demands that impeachment proceedings against him be 'dropped'

Fani Willis' dad takes the stand in disqualification hearing: Father claims she had a boyfriend called 'Deuce' in 2019 and didn't meet her prosecutor lover Nathan Wade until AFTER they started prosecuting Trump The father of Fulton County DA Fani Willis testified he lived with his daughter after 2019 when Willis is accused of starting an affair with a prosecutor that she said began in 2022. Now the FATHER of DA Fani Willis takes the stand in tense hearing

New $66B military aid and border bill released in Congress A bipartisan group of lawmakers has released a new foreign aid package that strips out humanitarian provisions and offers the tightest border security provisions yet. New $66B military aid and border bill released in Congress

New $66 BILLION military aid and border bill released in Congress: Lawmakers introduce new plan with $48billion for Ukraine as Democrats urge Republicans to approve more cash to Kyiv to make Putin 'pay' A bipartisan group of lawmakers has released a new foreign aid package that strips out humanitarian provisions and offers the tightest border security provisions yet agreed to by both parties. New $66 BILLION military aid and border bill released in Congress

Report: Biden doesn't believe anyone made a mistake during Afghan exit President Joe Biden remains defiant that his decision to end the war in Afghanistan was the right one. Report: Biden doesn't believe anyone made a mistake during Afghan exit

Kamala Harris blames Putin's 'brutality' for Navalny's death President Joe Biden previously said Russian President Vladimir Putin would face 'devastating' consequences if opposition leader Alexei Navalny perished in prison. Kamala Harris blames Putin's 'brutality' for Navalny's death

East Palestine mother's message to Biden as he finally visits Krissy Ferguson has not lived in the only home she has ever known for more than a year, ever since a train derailed spilling toxic chemicals into the creek that runs beneath her basement. East Palestine mother's message to Biden as he finally visits

Fani Willis AVOIDS more testimony as state attorneys choose NOT to question her after she was grilled on her sex life with 'Southern gentleman' prosecutor 'lover' Nathan Wade Lawyers for Fulton County DA Fani Willis stunned a Georgia courtroom Friday when they announced they would not call her back for a second day of testimony, after she spoke about her 'romantic' relationship. Fani Willis AVOIDS more testimony as state decides NOT to question her

How Donald Trump's trip to East Palestine powered his run to the Republican nomination while Biden hesitated Insiders say Trump locked up the Republican nomination on February 22 last year when he visited East Palestine, Ohio, to see the aftermath of train derailment and chemical spill. How East Palestine powered Trump's run to the Republican nomination

East Palestine mother's message to Biden: Don't use my village as a campaign stop, just help me find a new home after toxic chemical spill made me fear for my family Krissy Ferguson has not lived in the only home she has ever known for more than a year, ever since a train derailed spilling toxic chemicals into the creek that runs beneath her basement. East Palestine mother's message to Biden as he finally visits

Trump's lawyer Alina Habba says she 'doesn't have high hopes' ahead of verdict in former president's $370 million New York fraud trial Trump could be hit with millions of dollars in penalties and other sanctions in the decision by Judge Arthur Engoron, with Habba telling Newsmax she 'doesn't have high hopes'. Trump's lawyer 'doesn't have high hopes' before fraud trial verdict

House skips town for two weeks with Congress set to return just three days before ANOTHER government shutdown: Republicans fear another short-term spending deal with no alternative in sight The House broke for a two week recess Thursday without passing a government funding bill, leaving them only three days upon their return to avoid yet another potential government shutdown. Congress skips town leaving little time to avert government shutdown

White House complained to DOJ for including Biden's memory issues in scathing special counsel report BEFORE it was released, it's revealed as Robert Hur's blockbuster testimony is confirmed for March 12 The White House sent an angry letter to Attorney General Merrick Garland a day before the Special Counsel report on President Joe Biden's mishandling of classified information was released. White House slammed DOJ Biden report BFORE shocking release

Republicans warn Biden's order to pause deportations of Palestinians President Joe Biden is under fire from Republicans responding to his decision to defer deportation for most Palestinians living illegally in the United States. Republicans warn Biden's order to pause deportations of Palestinians

Republicans warn Biden's order to pause deportations of Palestinians living illegally in the U.S. is 'huge security vulnerability' and 'incentive Hamas terrorists' President Joe Biden is under fire from Republicans responding to his decision to defer deportation for most Palestinians living illegally in the United States. GOP: Biden 'rewarding terror with statehood' with deportation pause

Anna Wintour to host fundraiser for Biden during Paris Fashion Week Anna Wintour is reportedly bringing presidential politics to Paris Fashion Week when she hosts a fundraiser for President Joe Biden's reelection campaign next month. Anna Wintour to host fundraiser for Biden during Paris Fashion Week

Fani Willis' 'lover' Nathan Wade is grilled in court Fulton County Special Prosecutor Nathan Wade got grilled in a court hearing about his romantic relationship with DA Fani Willis and said she reimbursed him in cash for trip expenses. Fani Willis' 'lover' Nathan Wade is grilled in court

Biden's supporters are MORE willing than Trump fans to back third party candidates like Robert F. Kennedy Jr. in dire poll for president, 81, in swing state of Michigan Biden's supporters are more willing to break with their candidate than those backing Trump when third party candidates are considered in Michigan's 2024 race, according to a new poll. Poll: Biden supporters are MORE willing to back third party candidate

GOP Rep. demands probe into Turner over security threat warning GOP Rep. Andy Ogles on Thursday demanded an investigation into his fellow Republican, Intel Chair Mike Turner, claiming he was 'reckless' in firing off a warning about a national security threat. GOP Rep. demands probe into Turner over security threat warning

Republican Andy Ogles demands investigation into COLLEAGUE Mike Turner for 'reckless' national security threat warning that sparked Russian space nuke fears and claims he did it to get more funding for Ukraine GOP Rep. Andy Ogles on Thursday demanded an investigation into his fellow Republican, Intel Chair Mike Turner, claiming he was 'reckless' in firing off a warning about a national security threat. Ogles demands probe into Turner for national security threat warning

Nathan Wade grilled by Trump attorney over when he had SEX with Fani Willis: Prosecutor insists he hasn't had 'intercourse' with DA since last summer in staggering back and forth in court Fulton County Special Prosecutor Nathan Wade got grilled in a court hearing about his romantic relationship with DA Fani Willis and said she reimbursed him in cash for trip expenses. Fani Willis' 'lover' Nathan Wade is grilled about their 'affair'

Nikki Haley's son Nalin, 22, gives brutal Trump-style nicknames to his mother's former rivals Sen. Tim Scott and Vivek Ramaswamy Nikki Haley's 22-year-old son Nalin has adopted the Trumpian way of awarding derogatory nicknames to his mother's previous primary election rivals Sen. Tim Scott and Vivek Ramaswamy. Nikki Haley's son, 22, gives Trumpian nicknames to his mom's rivals

Trump ramps up calls for House Republicans to impeach Biden Former President Donald Trump is continuing to put pressure on the Republican-led House of representatives to impeach his rival, President Joe Biden. Trump ramps up calls for House Republicans to impeach Biden

Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis started her romantic relationship with her prosecutor 'lover' Nathan Wade three years earlier than they stated, her college friend claimed in dramatic testimony A former friend of Fulton County DA Fani Willis testified about her 'romantic' relationship with special prosecutor Nathan Wade, in bombshell testimony with potential disqualification on the line. Fani Willis' prosecutor 'lover' Nathan Wade appears in court

Bob Menendez's wife claims gold bars were INHERITED amid bribery case The New Jersey Democrat has been under investigation for allegedly accepting bribes of cash, gold bars and a luxury car over the last five years to carry out favors for three businessmen. Bob Menendez's wife claims gold bars were INHERITED amid bribery case

Melania marks her return to public life and shows affection for Trump Melania Trump returned to public life with a smile, waving and greeting guests from Donald Trump's side during a black-tie gala at Mar-a-Lago, her first major event since her mother died. Melania marks her return to public life and shows affection for Trump

Kremlin shoots down claims it is putting nuclear weapons in space Moscow claimed the ominous warning that Vladimir Putin wants to take out satellites is a 'malicious fabrication', but wouldn't go into details about any plan. Kremlin shoots down claims it is putting nuclear weapons in space

Ex-CIA chief warns Putin could 'blind' the US with space nuke Panetta also believes the Pentagon is looking at ways it can respond and disable satellites launched from Moscow as the space arms race heats up. Ex-CIA chief warns Putin could 'blind' the US with space nuke

Trump leaves Trump Tower on way to Stormy Daniels hush money hearing Donald Trump stepped out of his Manhattan tower Thursday morning as he prepares to again appear in New York court in his bid to get the judge to toss out the Stormy Daniels hush money payment case. Trump leaves Trump Tower on way to Stormy Daniels hush money hearing

Kremlin tries to SHOOT DOWN claims it is putting nuclear weapons in space: Putin's top spokesman accuses Biden of playing a 'trick' to get more money for Ukraine Moscow claimed the ominous warning that Vladimir Putin wants to take out satellites is a 'malicious fabrication', but wouldn't go into details about any plan. Kremlin shoots down claims it is putting nuclear weapons in space

Pete Buttigieg called 'Amtrak expert' as Biden talked about trains Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg argued Tuesday that President Joe Biden was so mentally sharp, he had to call an Amtrak expert during a conversation he had with the president about trains. Pete Buttigieg called 'Amtrak expert' as Biden talked about trains

Trump leaves Trump Tower on way to blockbuster hearing in Stormy Daniels hush money case: Ex-president faces two major court battles as George judge also considers disqualifying Fani Willis Trump stepped out of his Manhattan tower Thursday morning as he prepares to again appear in New York court in his bid to get the judge to toss out the Stormy Daniels hush money payment case. Trump will appear at pivotal Stormy Daniels hush money hearing today

How Melania Trump showed her TRUE affection for Donald on her return to public life after her mother's death Melania Trump returned to public life with a smile, waving and greeting guests from Donald Trump's side during a black-tie gala at Mar-a-Lago, her first major event since her mother died. Melania marks her return to public life and shows affection for Donald

Trump claims he mixed up Nikki and Nancy because 'they both stink' Donald Trump, 77, claimed Wednesday that he 'purposely' mixed up rival Nikki Haley and Nancy Pelosi - in what had been characterized as one of the ex-president's own senior moments. Trump claims he mixed up Nikki and Nancy because 'they both stink'

US fears Putin wants to put nuclear weapons in space Republican Mike Turner, the head of the House intelligence committee, yesterday asked the White House to declassify all information relating to this threat. US fears Putin wants to put nuclear weapons in space

US fears Putin wants to put nuclear weapons in SPACE - sparking Washington furore over 'serious national security threat' Republican Mike Turner, the head of the House intelligence committee, yesterday asked the White House to declassify all information relating to this threat. US fears Putin wants to put nuclear weapons in SPACE