Kelly Brook has revealed she's feeling more body confident than ever and it's led to more sex with husband Jeremy Parisi.

The 44-year-old model is a longtime ambassador for SlimFast but revealed she isn't actively trying to lose weight, merely maintain the figure she has.

Speaking exclusively to MailOnline ahead of the launch of her new weight and wellness podcast Life Gains, the former Page 3 girl explained: 'I don't want to be a size zero.

'I don't want to set myself unachievable goals. It's just about being the best version of myself now.'

Kelly continues to celebrate her figure with her annual racy calendars and revealed the reason she thinks they still fly off the shelves 23 years after her first shoot is because: 'I'm not a Love Island star!'

Kelly Brook has revealed she's feeling more body confident than ever and it's led to more sex with husband Jeremy Parisi (pictured in 2020)

Reflecting on her Noughties modelling career, she mused 'I was called curvy a lot when I was just a very typical, normal looking woman. I was a lot lighter than I am now!' (pictured in 2000)

She clarified: 'I don't want to be a threat! I want to be a wholesome pin-up girl. It's women that buy my calendar not men!'

One man that gets a calendar every year, however, is of course husband Jeremy, 38, who helps Kelly on her health and fitness journey but not with the goal of seeing her lose weight.

She explained: 'Jeremy's Italian so he likes he likes a big bum and boobies - so I don't have to worry about that!

'You just have to realise that no one really cares what you look like other than you do. You've got to what makes you feel good because if you're trying to look a certain way to please someone else it's a never ending battle.

'I'm happy in myself and confident and I don't think my husband notices my weight if it fluctuates... if you feel good that that can only lead to more sex!'

Jeremy has joined Kelly on her SlimFast journey with the pair both drinking shakes - Kelly as a meal replacement and Jeremy for extra protein - and he also ensures there's a healthy but hearty dinner on the table when she returns home from hosting the Heart Radio drivetime show.

She explained: 'I'll come home to a nice cooked meal. He's very sweet, he'll always light a little candle and set the table.

'He's Italian-French so it's all about sitting down and eating together so we do that and a lot of walking.

'We try and keep fit and healthy together. We've got a dog so we go out on weekends for two hour hikes and stuff like that, which we love to do.

'It's definitely our lifestyle, we'd much rather be out walking the dog than be sitting at home watching a movie.'

The former Page 3 girl explained: 'I don't want to be a size zero. 'I don't want to set myself unachievable goals. It's just about being the best version of myself now'

Reflecting on the differences between her figure now and in her 20s and the public perception of weight, Kelly mused: 'I was called curvy a lot in my modelling days when I was just a very typical, normal looking woman. I was a lot lighter than I am now!

'I was a trailblazer for "curvy" models at the time because it was all about that skinny, waifish look at the time but I worked with lingerie brands celebrating curves.

'The men's magazine market also celebrated curves, so men were championing girls that look like me, whereas the female magazines weren't so much.

'I think we've come on so far and we embrace so many different shapes and sizes now.'

Revealing how the public mood has done a 180, she continued: 'I get trolled when I post about SlimFast because people are like, "why are you doing that? You don't need to do that!"

'And I have to explain it's not about slimming down for me, it's maintaining.'

But it's impossible to please everyone, and Kelly explained she gets trolled for her appearance now.

She reasoned: 'I think it's a shock for people if they still see me in their heads as that Nineties model.

'Now as a 44-year-old married woman working on a radio show, they're just two completely different women. You can't even compare.

'I don't want to go backwards, I just want to move forward. I'm really comfortable with who I am and how I look.

'I'm so glad I don't have any of those body anxieties anymore.

'So if people see me and think "oh my God, she's unrecognisable" they just need to get their heads around it.

'It's not anything to do with me, it's all on them. I don't worry because I'm sure if I looked at a picture of them from like 25 years ago, they'd look different as well!

Kelly, who has been a SlimFast ambassador for five years and has successfully maintained a two stone weight loss during that time, has now collaborated with the brand to launch the Life Goals podcast with Big Narstie.

The Life Gains podcast explores their personal motivations and relatable experiences since embarking on their weight and wellness journeys.

Kelly, who has been a SlimFast ambassador for five years, has now collaborated with the brand to launch the Life Goals podcast with Big Narstie

Kelly explained: 'It's just been amazing to have somebody like Narstie, who's completely different to me, but we're on a similar journey to chat things through.

'We've all got our own life gains and our own life goals and it's how you can adapt SlimFast for you to reach your goal. It doesn't mean you have to be a particular size, it's about what works for you.

'I look at Narstie and see how he's come from collapsing to losing loads of weight, being able to play with his kids. He owns a gym now, he's turned his life around and I just think it's really inspiring.'

Kelly concluded: 'It's not the destination, it's a journey and ultimately, you know where you're going, so just keep on it.'

Kelly Brook and Big Narstie's new wellness podcast is all about shifting from a ‘can’t do’ to a ‘can do’ attitude, fuelling up on SlimFast’s 23 vitamins and minerals and 14g of protein and smashing personal goals.