

I am hoping to get your views on my situation. I am 58 years old and my mortgage runs for another nine years until I'm 67.

The loan is currently on a fixed rate 1.78 per cent until August 2025. I have £158,000 left to pay and I'm overpaying slightly at £200 per month. My normal payment is £1,396.00 a month, and I currently pay £1,596.00. I'm also aiming to save around £10,000 to £15,000 over the next two years.

I think I will have roughly £122,000 remaining on my mortgage by the time I need to remortgage and I guess I will need a loan for £110,000.

I also have a direct contribution pension, which I think will be worth around £170,000 by 2025. Should I cash in my 25 per cent tax free lump sum from that pension, and use it to reduce the amount of interest I would have to pay on the mortgage?

I expect, if things go well, to overpay a lot of the mortgage from 2025 to 2028 and want to be in a position to be mortgage free around 2028, when I'm 63.

I have a defined benefit pension of around £6,000 a year when I'm 65 and possibly a small £4,000 inheritance. This last bit is the unknown and will dictate the year I can actually retire. Via email

SCROLL DOWN TO FIND OUT HOW TO ASK DAVID YOUR MORTGAGE QUESTION

Mortgage help: Our new weekly Navigate the Mortgage Maze column stars broker David Hollingworth answering your questions.

David Hollingworth replies: Many borrowers are currently locked into very low fixed rates which will provide invaluable protection from the recent hikes in interest rates.

With fixed rates now well in excess of 5 per cent or even 6 per cent depending on the term those still locked into a low fix will be grateful for the buffer against rising costs.

Although your current rate of 1.78 per cent contrasts starkly with rates currently available, it's the right thing to start thinking about how you can best prepare for the end of that deal.

We can't know what things may look like in two years' time, and although there's currently an expectation that interest rates will ease back as inflation reduces, there's little expectation of rates dipping back to the historic lows that allowed you to lock in at such a low rate.

It therefore makes sense to expect that interest rates will still be higher when the existing deal ends. As result there's even more reason to make the most of the current deal for the two years it has left to run.

You clearly have a keen focus on eroding your mortgage as soon as you can. Most fixed rate deals will tie you into the deal during the fixed rate period and impose an early repayment charge if you were to repay the mortgage.

However, most lenders will allow you to make overpayments up to a certain limit, typically up to 10 per cent of the balance each year.

It would be worth checking your current balance and term. The monthly payments for a £158,000 mortgage at 1.78 per cent over 9 years would be £1,584 a month, so you may have paid off more than you anticipate - or the term may be a little longer.

Paying down: Our reader wants to know if they should use a lump sum to pay down their mortgage to reduce the impact of higher interest rates

Nonetheless, your £200 monthly overpayments will not be troubling a 10 per cent allowance and so you have plenty of flexibility to increase that amount if you wanted.

Having said that, it's important to decide whether direct mortgage overpayments would be the best approach at the moment.

Rising interest rates are bad news for borrowers but savings rates have been climbing. In some cases that could mean that savings rates are offering a higher rate than you are paying on the mortgage.

That could mean that paying regularly into a savings account will help you build the overpayment fund that you describe, whilst earning a better rate of return than repaying the mortgage would give you.

> Find the best-paying savings accounts on This is Money's rate tables

When making that comparison don't forget to factor in whether you will have to pay income tax on the savings interest.

The personal savings allowance has meant that many savers have not had to worry about paying tax on their interest, as the £1,000 allowance for basic rate and £500 for higher rate taxpayers has been adequate.

Now that interest rates are higher there is a greater chance that savings interest could become taxable and so overpaying debt, most expensive first, is still worth considering.

Using the tax free lump sum of your pension is another possible route to allowing the mortgage to be repaid sooner but you should consider all the alternative options first and seek expert pension advice.

Understanding how much you may owe at the end of the current deal as well as the amount of savings you've built and/or overpayments you've made will be important.

We don't know what interest rates will be in two years or what potential growth that the pension savings might offer compared to the reduction in mortgage interest by using the lump sum.

Crucially, you will need to consider how using the lump sum will affect your likely pension income in retirement.

Paying off the mortgage earlier will be a welcome reduction in outgoings but you will also need to be sure you can generate enough income with a smaller remaining pension pot, as well as considering whether there may be other savings available or if downsizing might offer an alternative.

In the meantime, carry on planning for the end of the current rate and how to reduce the mortgage - but it is important that you take specialist pension advice to understand any possible future tax considerations and all the wider implications before deciding whether to use the pension savings.