There were periods in my life when I listened to Steve Wright almost every afternoon.

On school runs — half an hour there, half an hour back — it was almost as though he were another passenger in the car, chipping in with wisecracks, always keeping things lively and carefree.

He was occasionally ridiculed for reading out listeners' letters that ended: 'Love the show, Steve.' But I'd guess that he recognised such shameless self-promotion came with the territory: a disc jockey is a salesman, and the product he is selling is himself.

Nevertheless he lacked the narcissism of so many of his rivals. He seemed to me much sharper than most other disc jockeys and, unlike them, was curious about the world beyond the studio.

On those school runs, my children and their friends used to love his chats with comical characters, particularly the fake Elvis, who would offer answers to listeners' queries such as 'What sort of food do walruses prefer?', and — my personal favourite — Barry, the croaky 82-year-old lifestyle guru from Watford, whose psychic wife was firmly of the opinion that Henry VIII was buried beneath their patio.

Steve Wright seemed to me much sharper than most other disc jockeys and, unlike them, was curious about the world beyond the studio

Wright, who started in radio in the 1970s, died suddenly in earlier this week. He was 69

Steve Wright was different. He was instantly engaged and engaging with interviewees, chatting away, off-air, about all sorts of things unrelated to the forthcoming interview

After our children left school, I listened to Steve Wright less frequently, but whenever I tuned in I was freshly surprised by the way he was still there, still joking away, as sharp as ever. He never seemed to coast.

The term 'disc jockey' only came into being in 1935. This means that some of the pioneers are still with us: Pete Murray, who started broadcasting in the 1940s, celebrated his 98th birthday last September.

While the rest of us are fretting about the past and the future, the disc jockey lives in an eternal present. He is employed to banter for two or three hours a day, light as a feather. So the death of a disc jockey still comes as a shock.

I think this is why their last words on air seem especially poignant. One minute they are there, the next minute they are gone. 'Michael Ball to follow the news, and I'm back for more Love Songs next Sunday — ta-ra, then!' This was how Steve Wright signed off from his show last Sunday. On two or three occasions, I was a guest on Steve Wright In The Afternoon. Most disc jockeys are pre-occupied by the mechanics of their shows, and barely look up as you are ushered into the studio while a record is playing.

But Steve Wright was different. He was instantly engaged and engaging, chatting away, off-air, about all sorts of things unrelated to the forthcoming interview.

I remember once we discussed the publicist Max Clifford, then in his prime. Clifford had just been on his show. I was censorious, saying I thought Clifford was corrupt and seedy, but Steve was more forgiving. 'To me, he's so Seventies, like a character out of Minder.'

On another occasion, I mentioned a project on which I was working with the great actress Eleanor Bron. In many ways, Eleanor is the opposite of Steve Wright, being private and unshowbizzy. But Steve was in awe of her. He told me that by chance he had found himself sitting near her in a cafe, and had felt proud to be in the same room.

Before you went on air, you'd be chatting away, and then, seamlessly — almost before you knew it — he would begin the interview. The ease of this transition meant that somehow one forgot to be nervous, and felt ready to match the speedy to-and-fro of his on-air conversation.

Heaven knows why the powers-that-be dropped him from his afternoon slot in September 2022. I suppose if you are the controller of Radio 2 there isn't much to do other than shuffle disc jockeys around.

Unlike other displaced DJs, he seemed to take his demotion in his stride. 'Sometimes people want you, sometimes they don't,' he said to reporters, as he leant against the doorway to Broadcasting House. 'I understand that, I really understand that.'

But I remember at the time wondering how he would adapt to the half-life that was confronting him. He struck me as one of those people who lives for his job.

Being on air for three hours every afternoon clearly electrified him: the world beyond could never be so busy or so buzzy. How could real life ever match up to it?