I am 30 years old and have run a successful business in the tech industry for the past five years. I recently surpassed £1million in turnover, which was a big milestone.

I’m now looking at how to take my online platform to the next level, including achieving greater public awareness, getting more customers and expanding my staff headcount. (I currently have 20 staff and would like to increase that to 60 staff).

What advice do you have for scaling up?

easyJet's Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou gives his top tips on how to scale a business in 2024

Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou replies: Reaching £1m in turnover with a tech start-up is no mean feat, so well done on reaching this milestone.

Young tech businesses like yours often think about growth, but cost control is just as important.

With financial help from my father, I managed to build easyJet in 5 years from zero to 20 aircraft and turnover of £500m per year by spotting a gap in the market for low cost airlines.

However airlines are capital intensive businesses and to buy another plane you need to deploy more capital. That is why I floated the business on the London Stock Exchange in 2000 to raise equity to grow to 336 Airbus aircraft today!

Then I made the decision to keep the brand in my company easyGroup, developing a steady income stream which now funds my charitable work every year.

You might enjoy watching the 4 minute video on easyHistory.info to learn from my last 30 years of experience in building start ups.

You should feel lucky that a tech platform business can say triple in revenues without having to deploy three times more capital.

Many of my recent start ups in the easy family of brand are following the same philosophy of being asset light like : www.easySim.global or www.easyCharging.app. You should stick to the same business model!

How can you build your platform out and increase revenue, without a substantial increase in your costs?

Tripling your headcount this year will triple the payroll costs to your business and your margins will take a hit unless your revenues grow by the same or more multiple. There is no guarantee your revenue will do the same.

I prefer to grow revenue first and then hire to meet demand. Hiring too early can be expensive and if your revenue doesn’t grow in line with your headcount, you might have to make redundancies down the line.

Instead you might want to think about hiring freelancers to take on any ad hoc work that needs doing to build the platform. This might be hiring some contracted web developers to help build out your platform, or perhaps a freelance marketeer to help with building brand awareness.

You want to ensure that you do not run into cash flow problems down the line and instead focus on bringing in new customers.

The next step is how you go about building your revenue. Clearly you have a steady revenue stream and while repeat custom is essential, you will need to think about finding a low-cost way to build your customer base.

This could be a referral programme you create through social media. Consumers are more likely to buy a product if they hear about it from someone they trust.

Another way to build brand awareness is entering into business awards or applying for cash grants.

They are a great way to market your business to new customers, as well as build credibility.

Over the years the easy family of brands has won many awards, and I recognise how important they are in raising a company’s profile.

The Stelios Foundation is running its own annual awards programme, with a total prize of £300,000 and a top prize of £150,000 to an entrepreneur under the age of 35 who has revenues of more than £1million a year and was created in the last 5 years. But also they have to impress me with their business idea.

With these awards we are hoping to find and support the next big business story in the UK and support job creation in the UK economy. More start up businesses can create more new jobs!

All three winners will receive my mentorship and the cash grants will be paid by the foundation without any conditions.

By the time I was 35 years old, easyJet.com was listed on the London Stock Exchange, with revenues of more than half a billion pounds and employing upwards of 3,000 people.

To find out more information, visit www.stelios.foundation.