Dua Lipa and her new boyfriend Callum Turner failed to make their red carpet debut as they arrived separately to the 77th EE BAFTAs at the Royal Festival Hall.

The hot new couple have been spotted on several outings in recent weeks, however they chose not to take their romance public on Sunday night.

The singer, 28, who just days ago released her new single Training Season, looked incredibly glamorous in a red caped dress.

The beauty complemented her purple tresses with a striking red gown, which flew elegantly in the wind behind her.

Dua looked sensational in the halterneck-pleated gown and flashed her inked skin under the semi-sheer cape.

Dua Lipa and her new boyfriend Callum Turner failed to make their red carpet debut as they arrived separately to the 77th EE BAFTAs at the Royal Festival Hall on Sunday

The singer, who just days ago released her new single Training Season , looked incredibly glamorous in a red caped dress

She showcased her flawless features with a bronzed palette of make-up as she sultry posed on the carpet.

Meanwhile, Callum, 34, opted for a cool but classic look in a black suit and tie with a crisp white shirt as he made his arrival.

Callum and the six Brit-Award-winner confirmed their romance last month in Hollywood but this week, the lovebirds marked a huge milestone in their relationship after he introduced Dua to his mother.

The Masters of the Air actor gave his mother a kiss on the cheek as the trio caught up and laughed together.

Tuesday marked Callum's 34th birthday, with both his new love and his mum on hand to help him celebrate.

News of Dua and Callum's romance broke when the two stars were spotted getting cosy at a Beverly Hills party for his show Masters of the Air.

In footage obtained by TMZ, the pop star slow-danced with The Boys in the Boat star at the star-studded soiree.

An insider told Page Six: 'It's new, but they're mad about each other' adding: 'She was at the premiere to support him.'

The beauty complemented her purple tresses with a striking red gown, which flew elegantly in the wind behind her

Meanwhile, Callum, 34, opted for a cool but classic look in a black suit and tie with a crisp white shirt as he made his arrival

News of Dua and Callum's romance broke when the two stars were spotted getting cosy at a Beverly Hills party for his show Masters of the Air

Dua received a helping hand from an assistant on the red carpet

The pair were seen with their faces close together, though it was unclear whether they locked lips during their romantic interlude.

As he left the party, Callum was asked whether he and the three Grammy-Award-winner were an item - and rather than issuing a denial, he poured fuel on the fire by remaining coyly silent.

Dua's latest romance comes on the heels of her breakup from French boyfriend Romain Gavras.

David Tennant will host this year's ceremony live from Royal Festival Hall at London's Southbank Centre, with an array of guest presenters on hand to deliver awards throughout the night.

Actress and singer Hannah Waddingham will treat guests to an exclusive live music performance, while Sophie Ellis-Bextor will perform her iconic hit Murder on the Dancefloor after it enjoyed a new lease of life in Emerald Fennell's BAFTA nominated Saltburn.

Elsewhere the Guyanese-born, London-based film curator June Givanni will receive an Outstanding British Contribution to Cinema Award.

Tuesday marked Callum's 34th birthday, with both his new love and his mum on hand to help him celebrate

In footage obtained by TMZ, the pop star slow-danced with The Boys in the Boat star at the star-studded soiree

An insider told Page Six: 'It's new, but they're mad about each other' adding: 'She was at the premiere to support him.'

Actress Samantha Morton's lengthy career will also be rewarded with a BAFTA Fellowship, the arts charity's highest accolade and handed out in recognition of outstanding and exceptional contribution to film, games or television.

Tennant, who is hosting the star-studded ceremony for the first time, recently admitted he was bewildered by the prospect of compering to so many people.

He told Variety: 'I don't know what to expect, if I'm honest with you. The whole thing just feels like one of those experiences you say 'yes' to because it would be churlish not to. But what an amazing thing to be asked to do. What a privilege.'

The Scottish actor also insisted he will adopt a softer approach to the abrasive style used to great effect by Ricky Gervais at the Golden Globes.

'I think the BAFTA mood is supportive and friendly,' he added. 'Ricky Gervais is brilliant at what he does, but that wouldn't be my style.

THE BAFTA WINNERS AT A GLANCE Best Film - Oppenheimer Best Director - Christopher Nolan, Oppenheimer Supporting Actor - Robert Downey Jr, Oppenheimer Leading Actor - Cillian Murphy, Oppenheimer Leading Actress - Emma Stone, Poor Things Supporting Actress - Da'vine Joy Randolph, The Holdovers Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

She showcased her flawless features with a bronzed palette of make-up as she sultry posed on the carpet

Dua looked happy and relaxed as she sweetly posed for photos with fans

The hitmaker was in high spirits as she signed autographs for fans on the sidelines at the red carpet

Dua elegantly swirled in her caped dress for the cameras

'I don't think I've quite got that sort of approach, so I think you just have to kind of be who you are, really. But we've got some good material that won't leave anyone feeling got at.'

Tennant revealed he was in complete shock when he received an email asking if he wanted to host the annual awards show.

Speaking to the Radio Times, he said: 'Right now, a month out, it feels like a bit of a thrill and a lark.

'An extraordinary opportunity to do something very unusual and exciting. People keep asking me how nervous I am, how I'm preparing for it and so on, and that's beginning to make me nervous.

'Who knows why they've asked me! I just thought I'd say yes before they realised they've sent the email to the wrong person.'

BAFTA CEO Jane Millichip confirmed the academy was 'over the moon' that Tennant would be hosting the ceremony.

She said: 'He is deservedly beloved by British and international audiences, alike.

'His warmth, charm and mischievous wit will make it a must-watch show next month for our guests at the Royal Festival Hall and the millions of people watching at home.'