Britain has a beautiful history of charming villages and towns - and many are steeped in proud traditions dating back many years.

Yet there are a few that veer more towards the quirky than the quaint and sometimes even the most pleasant-seeming places have the most peculiar of traditions.

Here, we look at some of the more eyebrow-raising examples - from the outwardly sleepy community that harbours a sect of druids who dance naked through the forest, to the quintessential English hamlet that loves chocolate but hates booze and has banned all the pubs.

England's green and pleasant land has really never looked so weird or so wonderful...

The Bruderof community in Sussex has 300 members, who have restricted themselves to an old-fashioned way of life. Pictured is the documentary Inside the Bruderhof

With its quaint tearooms and lovingly restored 'Bluebell' steam railway, East Grinstead would seem to be the quintessential English market town

The quaint village where booze is (almost) banned

In Bournville, the home to Cadbury's chocolate, the public sale of alcohol is a rare site.

The village outside Birmingham was set up by the Cadbury family in the late 19th century to provide a home for the workers who manned their factory.

The booze ban - which until very recently was total - stemmed from the fact that the family were members of the Quaker faith, which prohibits alcohol.

Even today, the ban largely holds. There are no pubs, the shops don't sell alcohol and if anyone is caught drinking in the parks they will have it snatched away or poured down a drain.

Bournville, the home to Cadbury's chocolate, has banned alcohol

Women cracking eggs in the Bournville chocolate factory in the early 1930s

However, Bournville's Old Farm Hotel is allowed to sell alcohol - albeit only to its paying guests and customers who are eating in their restaurant.

There is also the Cadbury Club, a sports and social venue for employees of the chocolate firm. Alcohol is on sale there but is for members only.

In 2015, newsagent Kamal Sharma provoked fury when he was given a license to sell alcohol from his shop in Bournville.

One local councillor called it a 'devastating blow' to residents.

Locals told The Sun that Bournville is a 'lovely, safe and peaceful' area and they are glad to have no 'drunken yobs'.

Thousands of Cadbury workers are seen listening to a speech by the then managing director to mark the firm's centenary, in 1924

The home of Scientology and naked dancing druids

With its quaint tearooms, and restored 'Bluebell' steam railway, East Grinstead would seem to be the quintessential English market town.

Except for the fact it's known as the UK home of Scientology. Once a bastion of Anglicanism, in recent years it has become a magnet for esoteric sects and quasi‑religious fringe groups.

They range from Scientologists and Mormons to more obscure organisations such as the Rosicrucians, a spiritual and cultural movement that dates back to the 17th century.

Opus Dei - the arcane Catholic faction that spawned a fictitious murderous albino monk in Dan Brown's bestseller The Da Vinci Code - also have a base there.

But the town has attracted other outlandish types, too.

Druids who are said to dance naked at dead of night in the nearby forest. Satanists. Pagans who believe the earth on which East Grinstead was built conceals a network of 'ley lines' that emit waves of spiritual energy.

Saint Hill Manor, European Headquarters of the Church of Scientology near East Grinstead, West Sussex in a 1998 file photo

Druids are said to dance naked at dead of night in the forest. (File photo of a druid ceremony)

East Grinstead is also home to the Mormon 'London England Temple'.

The huge building, complete with a green spire, was consecrated in the late 1950s.

When the Daily Mail attempted to visit the premises in 2020, a reporter was turned away.

Mormonism has millions of members in the US but less than 200,000 in the UK.

Pictured: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints in Newchapel, near East Grinstead

No clothes allowed in the village

The village of Spielplatz has a rather different tradition - it's been home to a nudist colony for 85 years.

It's the longest operating nudist resort in the UK and consists of 12 acres of land in the village of Bricket Wood, Hertfordshire.

Comprised of 65 houses, it was founded in 1929 by Charles Macaskie, who bought the site for £500.

Veteran resident Iseult ­Richardson told The Mirror: 'There is no difference between naturists and people who live up the street.

The village of Spielplatz has been home to a nudist colony for 85 years

Trips to their own local pub, swimming sessions and meal times are all performed in the nude

'We all live normal lives but are just lucky enough to live in this extraordinary place. It's like a small estate.

'We have all sorts of deliveries. The milkman comes and delivers and we used to have a paperboy though that's stopped now.

'The postmen and tradesmen know us and take us as they find us. They never seem perturbed.'

While residents prefer stripping off, they will adorn wellingtons, trousers or appropriate clothing when carrying out tasks like gardening.

Trips to their own local pub, swimming sessions and meal times are all performed in the nude.

Earlier this year one woman spoke of how life in the village cured her of body esteem issues.

Tina Yates was self-conscious of a scar on her abdomen following an operation, and was taken to Spielplatz by her naturist husband in the hope it may cheer her up.

Soon the pensioner had let go of all her previous body hang-ups, and the couple settled in permanently.

While those living behind its fences are free of inhibitions, tensions are fraught over an ongoing debate about whether to force visitors to bare all when they come to see family.

The community stuck in the 1920s

The Bruderhof Christian community in Sussex has 300 members who have restricted themselves to an old-fashioned way of life.

Women wear ankle-length skirts and have to get permission to 'court' the opposite sex.

The strict dress code - likened to that in the 1920s - is to 'protect' them, according to the men in the group.

Teenage dating is banned and members must wait until they have been baptised and they are in their early 20s before they can get romantically involved.

One woman told the BBC how she was caught with a boyfriend in the 2000s and was subject to 'public shaming' and her 'crimes' were read out in front of a crowd.

Mobile phones, video games and computers are all banned and everyone in the community is assigned an unpaid job.

The strict dress code - likened to that in the 1920s - is to 'protect' them, according to the men

Mobile phones, video games and computers are all banned and everyone in the community is assigned an unpaid job

The community rose from the embers of First World War Germany in 1920.

A group of Christians, led by German protestant theologian Eberhard Arnold, decided they wanted to live differently, following the preachings of Christ’s Sermon On The Mount.

The community (Bruderhof is German for ‘place of brothers’) was targeted by the Nazis in the 1930's because they refused to join the party, and in 1937 they were forced to disband.

Many emigrated to England where they founded a new community in the Cotswolds; the group reached more than 250 members after being joined by like-minded Brits.

But they were forced to leave England in 1941 when the Germans in the group were threatened with internment, and moved to Paraguay then North America, returning to England and Germany after the war.

Bernard Hibbs, 38, (pictured with his wife) who is the outreach director at the Bruderhof community in Sussex, is seen in a BBC documentary that aired in 2019

The seaside village which banned bodyboards

The seaside village of Westward Ho! in Devon was the first in the UK to ban polystyrene bodyboards in 2021.

The self-imposed ban means no independent retailers in the village can sell the boards in order to protect the environment.

Over 97 per cent of the residents voted for the measure in 2020 due to the damage the cheap boards were causing.

Single-use polystyrene boards crumble away in the sea and cause harm to wildlife who mistake the material for food.

In their place, the village plans to implement a For Hire service which allows visitors to rent better quality boards for their holiday.

The seaside village of Westward Ho! in Devon was the first in the UK to ban polystyrene bodyboards in 2021

The self-imposed ban means no independent retailers in the village can sell the boards in order to protect the environment

Every single door must be painted green - and no takeaways allowed

Wentworth, in South Yorkshire, has a ban on takeaway restaurants. It also has a strict rule that all the doors must be painted green.

Residents must request permission from the 'village trust' to make changes to their houses and there isn't a supermarket in sight.

Those visiting the quaint village may notice the distinct lack of neon signs.

There's a village shop - where locals can buy sandwiches, pots of jam and lemon curd, milk and essentials - two pubs and a restaurant.

Visitors travel from miles around to to gaze upon Wentworth Woodhouse, the village's grand stately home, or to shop at Wentworth Garden Centre.

Local wine merchant Matt Thompson told Yorkshire Live: 'It's forced to be [traditional] because of the rules the estate has to abide by, everything has to be uniform.

'Hence all the 'Wentworth Green'. I see it everybody – but yes people come in and say 'what a great village'.'

A similar rule is in place for Wentworth, in South Yorkshire. The village has been labelled as 'draconian' as is has banned takeaway restaurants

It also has a strict rule that all the doors must be painted green

Residents must request permission from the 'village trust' to make changes to their houses and there isn't a supermarket in sight

The fairytale town which declared a war on dogs

One Cornish town was accused of declaring a war on dogs after it banned the pets for every green space in the area.

Dogs are banned from parks in Callington, and have been for more than a decade, following concerns around dog attacks.

This means owners have to travel an hour away from their homes to walk their beloved pooches.

Meanwhile, the fairytale village of Downham in Lancashire has banned TV aerials, power lines and satellite dishes to protect its aesthetic feel.

The village - which has been owned by the same ancestral family for 500 years - is committed to remaining spoilt by modern life.

The Assheston family spokesperson told the Manchester Evening News previously: 'Downham may look preserved in aspic, but it is a vibrant and thriving community supporting a range of businesses.

'One example is the transformation of Brookside Barn in the village into office accommodation and, nearby, the eco-friendly Bowland Bioenergy, which supplies sustainable wood fuel products for biomass heating.

'The Estate today is grappling with how to achieve as low a carbon footprint as possible and the current challenge is to upgrade very old and listed properties while avoiding damage and ugly alterations.'