Dubai has been crowned the most popular destination in the world for the third year running by the Tripadvisor Travellers' Choice Awards for destinations.

The winners for the 2024 awards were identified based on the quality and quantity of reviews and ratings specific to several award subcategories from travellers on Tripadvisor for accommodations, restaurants and things to do in destinations worldwide over the 12 months between October 2022 and September 2023.

Tripadvisor says of third-time winner Dubai: 'Everything feels extra spectacular in Dubai, from the ultra-modern Burj Khalifa to the souks and malls filled with gold and jewellery vendors. It's a place where if you can dream it, you can do it, whether that means skiing indoors, dune-surfing in the desert, or zip-lining above the city.'

London retains its crown as Europe's number one as well as its third-place position in the global ranking, trailing behind second-place Bali, Indonesia. The rest of the global top five is made up of Hanoi in Vietnam (fourth) and Rome (fifth). The highest-ranking American destination is New York, which has slipped from 23rd to 25th overall.

Other popular destinations to make it into the top 10 are Paris (sixth); Cancun (seventh); Marrakech (eighth); Crete (ninth) and Hoi An in Vietnam (10th).

Dubai has been crowned the most popular destination in the world for the third year running by the Tripadvisor Travellers' Choice Awards for destinations

Bali, in Indonesia, takes home the silver medal in the 2024 global hotlist. In this year's new 'Honeymoon Destinations' category, the destination takes the top spot

Topping the list of destinations in Europe is London, which comes third in the world ranking

The rest of the European top 10 ranking, meanwhile, is made up of Rome (second); Paris (third); Crete (fourth); Istanbul (fifth); Barcelona (sixth); Madrid (seventh); Lisbon (eighth); Amsterdam (ninth) and Florence (10th).

Looking at the other categories in the awards, the list of 'Trending Destinations' - locations around the world seeing the greatest year-over-year growth of interest on Tripadvisor - is topped by Tokyo. Describing the Japanese capital, Tripadvisor says: 'The city is famously cutting-edge, yet its ancient Buddhist temples, vintage teahouses, and peaceful gardens offer a serene escape—and a reminder of its past.'

The silver medal goes to the South Korean capital of Seoul, where Tripadvisor suggests visiting the N Seoul Tower 'built atop a peak in Namsan Park' and the teahouses of Insadong, which 'give you a taste of Korean flavour'.

A third Asian destination completes the top three - Halong Bay in Vietnam - where Tripadvisor recommends renting a kayak or taking a tour to explore the area's 'amazing limestone islands, rock formations and caves'.

TRIPADVISOR TRAVELLERS' CHOICE AWARDS 2024 - BEST OF THE BEST DESTINATIONS: THE MOST POPULAR OVERALL IN THE WORLD 1. Dubai, UAE 2. Bali, Indonesia 3. London, UK 4. Hanoi, Vietnam 5. Rome, Italy 6. Paris, France 7. Cancun, Mexico 8. Marrakech, Morocco 9. Crete, Greece 10. Hoi An, Vietnam 11. New Delhi, India 12. Istanbul, Turkey 13. Cusco, Peru 14. Barcelona, Spain 15. Bangkok, Thailand 16. Dominican Republic 17. Playa del Carmen, Mexico 18. Phuket, Thailand 19. Hurghada, Egypt 20. Madrid, Spain 21. Siem Reap, Cambodia 22. Lisbon, Portugal 23. Amsterdam, Netherlands 24. Kathmandu, Nepal 25. New York City, U.S IN EUROPE 1. London 2. Rome 3. Paris 4. Crete 5. Istanbul, Turkey 6. Barcelona 7. Madrid 8. Lisbon 9. Amsterdam 10. Florence, Italy 11. Tenerife, Spain 12. Edinburgh, Scotland 13. Porto, Portugal 14. Santorini, Greece 15. Goreme, Turkey 16. Budapest, Hungary 17. Prague, Czech Republic 18. Athens, Greece 19. Dublin, Ireland 20. Naples, Italy 21. Krakow, Poland 22. Malta 23. Dubrovnik, Croatia 24. Reykjavik, Iceland 25. Madeira, Portugal IN THE U.S 1. New York 2. Oahu, Hawaii 3. Las Vegas, Nevada 4. New Orleans, Louisiana 5. Miami Beach, Miami 6. Maui, Hawaii 7. Nashville, Tennessee 8. Charleston, South Carolina 9. Chicago, Illinois 10. Key West, Florida 11. Kauai, Florida 12. San Francisco, California 13. Washington DC 14. Asheville, North Carolina 15. San Diego, California 16. Sedona, Arizona 17. Boston, Massachusetts 18. Savannah, Georgia 19. St. Augustine, Florida 20. Moab, Utah 21. Seattle, Washington State 22. Austin, Texas 23. Los Angeles, California 24. Branson, Missouri 25. Scottsdale, Arizona Source: Tripadvisor Travellers’ Choice Awards 'Best of the Best' winners are destinations whose hotels, restaurants and things to do received a high volume of above-and-beyond reviews and opinions from reviewers over a 12-month period. Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/travel/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Rome snaps up fifth place in the global popularity ranking. The Italian capital is runner-up in Europe and also in the 'Best of the Best Food Destinations' category

The highest-ranking American destination, in terms of popularity, is New York, which ranks 25th overall

Hanoi, Vietnam, comes fourth in the global ranking. But the city takes the crown in the 2024 list of best food destinations

The rest of the top ten Trending list features Palawan Island, Philippines (fourth); Sapa, Vietnam (fifth); Bogota, Colombia (sixth); Pattaya, Thailand (seventh); Alajuela, Costa Rica (eighth); Phnom Penh, Cambodia (ninth) and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (10th).

In the 'Best of the Best Nature Destinations' category, which celebrates travellers' appetite for adventure and the great outdoors and sets out to inspire budding explorers who are planning bucket list trips, Kathmandu is number one.

The Nepalese capital is followed by Halong Bay in second and Egypt's Hurghada, which bags the bronze medal after missing out last year with fourth place.

Making up the remainder of the top 10 are Mauritius (fourth); Lombok, Indonesia (fifth); Kauai, U.S (sixth); Zanzibar Island, Tanzania (seventh); Grand Cayman, Caribbean (eighth); Guadeloupe, Caribbean (ninth) and Kruger National Park (10th).

TRIPADVISOR TRAVELLERS' CHOICE AWARDS 2024 - DESTINATIONS: TRENDING, NATURE, AND CULTURE TRENDING DESTINATIONS 1. Tokyo, Japan 2. Seoul, South Korea 3. Halong Bay, Vietnam 4. Palawan Island, Philippines 5. Sapa, Vietnam 6. Bogota, Colombia 7. Pattaya, Thailand 8. Alajuela, Costa Rica 9. Phnom Penh, Cambodia 10. Kuala Lampur, Malaysia 11. Jeju Island, South Korea 12. Viti Levu, Fiji 13. Chennai (Madras), India 14. Puebla, Mexico 15. Bandung, Indonesia 16. Panama City, Panama 17. Huaraz, Peru 18. Nairobi, Kenya 19. La Paz, Bolivia 20. Port Ghalib, Egypt 21. Brasov, Romania 22. Manra, Ecuador 23. Casablanca, Morocco 24. Santiago, Chile 25. Taipei, Taiwan BEST NATURE DESTINATIONS 1. Kathmandu, Nepal 2. Halong Bay, Vietnam 3. Hurghada, Egypt 4. Mauritius 5. Lombok, Indonesia 6. Kauai, U.S 7. Zanzibar Island, Tanzania 8. Grand Cayman 9. Guadeloupe 10. Kruger National Park, South Africa 11. Martinique 12. Wadi Rum, Jordan 12. Lanzarote, Spain 14. Merzouga, Morocco 15. Roatan, Honduras 16. Kochi, India 17. Cozumel, Mexico 18. Ambergris Caye, Belize 19. Barbados 20. Natal, Brazil 21. Saint John 22. Quepos, Costa Rica 23. Tangalle, Sri Lanka 24. Fethiye, Turkey 25. Snowdonia National Park, U.S BEST CULTURE DESTINATIONS 1. Cuba 2. Cusco, Peru 3. Agra, India 4. Fes, Morocco 5. Athens, Greece 6. Dublin, Ireland 7. Colombo, Sri Lanka 8. Hue, Vietnam 9. Edinburgh 10. Tokyo, Japan 11. Prague, Czech Republic 12. Santiago, Chile 13. Porto, Portugal 14. Addis Ababa, Ethiopia 15. Seville, Spain 16. Vienna, Austria 17. Singapore 18. Berlin, Germany 19. Amman, Jordan 20. Buenos Aires, Argentina 21. Quito, Ecuador 22. Hong Kong, China 23. Bogota, Colombia 24. Yerevan, Armenia 25. Baku, Azerbaijan Source: Tripadvisor Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/travel/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_2 - ->

The most popular 'Trending' destination is Tokyo, which also ranks 10th among the world's most culturally-rich destinations

The silver medal in the 'Trending' ranking goes to Seoul, South Korea, where Tripadvisor suggests visiting the N Seoul Tower 'built atop a peak in Namsan Park' and the teahouses of Insadong, which 'give you a taste of Korean flavour'

In a ranking dedicated to U.S destinations, crowned champion New York is followed by Oahu (second) and Las Vegas (third). Pictured: Hanauma Bay, on Oahu island

Aimed at history, art and culture fans is the 'Best of the Best Culture Destinations' ranking. Tripadvisor says that the category sees 'two new entries for 2024', with Cusco, Peru, in second place and Agra, India, third on the podium.

'But it's Cuba that takes the top spot, climbing five places from last year to be named No1 in the world,' it adds. Completing the top five are Fes, Morocco (fourth), and Athens, Greece (fifth).

Other culturally rich destinations in the top 10 are Dublin, Ireland (sixth); Colombo, Sri Lanka (seventh); Hue, Vietnam (eighth); Edinburgh, UK (ninth) and Tokyo, Japan (10th).

Next up? It's the foodie category. The 'Best of the Best Food Destinations' ranking 'serves up a diverse culinary delight', says Tripadvisor, which points out that Europe 'takes half of the top 10 world spots’. They are Rome (second); Crete (third); Florence (fifth); Barcelona (seventh) and Lisbon (ninth).

TRIPADVISOR TRAVELLERS' CHOICE AWARDS 2024 - DESTINATIONS: HONEYMOON AND SUSTAINABILITY BEST HONEYMOON DESTINATIONS WORLDWIDE 1. Bali, Indonesia 2. Hoi An, Vietnam 3. Maldives 4. Dominican Republic 5. Mauritius 6. Khao Lak, Thailand 7. Jamaica 8. Santorini 9. Zanzibar Island, Tanzania 10. Venice, Italy 11. St. Lucia 12. Gramado, Brazil 13. Lisbon, Portugal 14. Ambergris Caye, Belize 15. Tulum, Mexico 16. Dubrovnik, Croatia 17. Bora Bora, French Polynesia 18. Niagra-on-the-Lake, Canada 19. Budapest, Hungary 20. Prague, Czech Republic 21. Viti Levu, Fiji 22. Kauai, U.S 23. Barbados 21. Killarney, Ireland 25. Antigua BEST SUSTAINABLE DESTINATIONS WORLDWIDE 1. Copenhagen, Denmark 2. Stockholm, Sweden 3. Bordeaux, France 4. Helsinki, Finland 5. Singapore 6. Melbourne, Australia 7. Oslo, Norway 8. Brussels, Belgium 9. Galway, Ireland 10. Belfast, UK 11. Bangkok, Thailand 12. Barcelona, Spain 13. Montreal, Canada 14. Milan, Italy 15. Zurich, Switzerland Source: Tripadvisor Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/travel/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_3 - ->

Tripadvisor's 'Best of the Best Culture' list is topped by Cuba in the Caribbean

Kathmandu, Nepal, is the number one 'Nature' destination for 2024

Vietnam's Halong Bay takes second place on the winners' podium for 'Nature Destinations' and comes third under 'Trending Destinations'

'But it's Hanoi, Vietnam, that comes out top for foodies on Tripadvisor, climbing two places this year to claim the number one spot in the world,' it adds.

The remaining foodie destinations making up the top 10 are Cusco, Peru (fourth); New Delhi, India (sixth); New Orleans, U.S (eighth) and Phuket, Thailand (10th).

In a ranking dedicated to U.S destinations, crowned champion New York is followed by Oahu (second); Las Vegas (third); New Orleans (fourth) and Miami Beach (fifth).

There are two new categories this year, one of which is the 'Best of the Best Sustainable Destinations', which recognises 'winners from around the world deemed to have strong commitments to sustainability'. Here, Copenhagen takes the gold followed by Stockholm, second, and Bordeaux in third.

'Europe is leading the way when it comes to environmentally responsible cities, taking eight of the top 10 spots,' Tripadvisor notes.

TRIPADVISOR TRAVELLERS' CHOICE AWARDS 2024 - FOOD BEST FOOD DESTINATIONS WORLDWIDE 1. Hanoi 2. Rome 3. Crete 4. Cusco 5. Florence 6. New Delhi 7. Barcelona 8. New Orleans 9. Lisbon 10. Phuket BEST FOOD DESTINATIONS EUROPE 1. Rome 2. Crete 3. Florence 4. Barcelona 5. Lisbon 6. Paris 7. Istanbul 8. Athens 9. Porto 10. Edinburgh BEST FOOD DESTINATIONS IN THE U.S 1. New Orleans 2. Charleston 3. Maui 4. New York City 5. Savannah 6. Nashville 7. Miami Beach 8. Boston 9. Asheville 10. San Diego Source: Tripadvisor Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/travel/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_4 - ->

A new category this year is the 'Best of the Best Sustainable Destinations', with the Danish capital of Copenhagen taking the top spot

Hoi An is the second most popular 'Honeymoon Destination' and the 10th most popular place overall, according to the latest Tripadvisor awards

Paris is the third most popular destination in Europe and the sixth most popular worldwide

Aimed at romantic getaways, the other new category this year is the 'Best of the Best Honeymoon Destinations', where Bali takes the crown followed by Hoi An, Vietnam, in second place, and Maldives third.

Commenting on the 2024 ranking, Sarah Firshein, head of editorial at Tripadvisor, says: 'Winners like Dubai, Tokyo, Paris, and Marrakech indicate that our community has an unbridled appetite for destinations with vibrant arts-and-culture scenes, top-notch restaurants, and seemingly limitless attractions and experiences.

'It's also great to see a rebound on long-haul trips to Asia, with the region having fully opened up post-pandemic. As Tripadvisor's Trending Destinations list shows, travellers are keen to get out there and explore with gusto.'

See the winners across all subcategories here: tripadvisor.co.uk/TravellersChoice-Destinations.