AUTUMN STATEMENT AND SPENDING REVIEW: NEWS AND COMMENT

Rishi Sunak gathers Tory MPs at luxury hotel to insist they can emulate England cricket team and pull off miracle election victory… as poll shows Labour 17 points ahead Rishi Sunak (right) cited the surprise victory in the first test against India (left) as he treated around 100 of his troops to dinner at a luxury hotel in Leicester Square. CCHQ elections chief Isaac Levido is also said to have told the gathering, including Cabinet ministers Jeremy Hunt , Grant Shapps, James Cleverly and Kemi Badenoch , that there are still 10million undecided voters. The event was designed to soothe anxiety over Labour's persistent double-digit advantage in the polls, with the country set to go to the ballot boxes by the end of the year. But many MP seem to have shunned the do, especially as it took place on a Thursday night when they would normally be back in their constituencies....read Rishi Sunak rallies Tory MPs over dinner at luxury hotel

Election blow for Tories as Jeremy Hunt scrambles to cool hopes of big tax cuts at Budget... while poll shows Labour 19 points ahead Chancellor Jeremy Hunt insisted he is determined to 'lighten' the burden ahead of the crucial package in March. Election blow as Jeremy Hunt cools hopes of big tax cuts at Budget

Jeremy Hunt 'warns Cabinet tax cuts will be smaller than hoped' in March Budget amid 'structural weakness' in economy 'We are not likely to have as much room for tax cuts as we had in the autumn,' the Chancellor told yesterday's Cabinet meeting. Jeremy Hunt 'warns tax cuts will be smaller than hoped' in Budget

Millions of supermarket sandwiches to go up in price as supplier warns its costs will soar when National Living Wage increases by £1 an hour in April Greencore says the imminent £1 rise to the Government-mandated wage for those aged 21 and over to £11.44 is a 'material' additional cost that will 'seep' into its prices. Supermarket sandwich prices to go up in price amid £1 Living Wage rise

Sunak vows there are 'more tax cuts to come' as he prepares to start drawing up Spring Budget with Chancellor Jeremy Hunt Rishi Sunak said there is 'more to come' in terms of tax cuts as he prepares to start drawing up their Budget next week he wants to slash taxes 'when we can responsibly do so.' Sunak vows 'more tax cuts to come' as he prepares Spring Budget

Jeremy Hunt hints personal tax cuts could be in his March budget as he looks to boost the economy At the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Jeremy Hunt said tax cuts would be the 'direction of travel' as he sought to boost the economy. Jeremy Hunt hints personal tax cuts could be in his March budget

Rishi Sunak could spend a chunk of general election campaign in SAMOA at Commonwealth summit if he sets the poll date for November A November 14 election date would mean a potentially awkward clash with the Commonwealth Heads of Government summit - CHOGM. Rishi Sunak could spend a chunk of general election campaign in SAMOA

Rishi Sunak 'gambles on Spring interest rate and tax cuts to deliver Autumn election victory for Tories' as he hopes feelgood factor will come to his rescue Rishi Sunak dramatically moved to kill speculation about a May election yesterday, saying his plan was to trigger a ballot in the 'second half of the year'. PM 'hopes interest rate and tax cuts can deliver Autumn election win'

The controversial 'tourist tax' could cost the UK economy £260 million over the festive holiday, analysis finds The study by industry group UKinbound found the sum could be a conservative estimate as it does not include spending at hotels or other tourism-reliant businesses, such as taxi firms. Controversial 'tourist tax' could cost the UK economy £260 million

JEFF PRESTRIDGE: Jeremy Hunt should take the nuclear option and abolish inheritance tax altogether JEFF PRESTRIDGE: Only one in five adults believes that IHT is fair. It is therefore the right time for the Chancellor to acknowledge this by abolishing it, rather than tinkering at the edges. JEFF PRESTRIDGE: Jeremy Hunt should abolish inheritance tax altogether

Jeremy Hunt draws up a plan to slash inheritance tax by HALF as he sets March 6 for the date of his vital pre-election budget Slashing the death tax is among the leading options on the Chancellor's agenda as he puts together a March budget - which Rishi Sunak has said will signal a 'gear shift'. Jeremy Hunt draws up a plan to slash inheritance tax by HALF

GRAHAM GRANT: As the SNP prepares to pick our pockets once again, is it time to let Westminster take back control of tax? You can tell the day of the Scottish Budget is looming by the ratcheting-up of SNP propaganda aimed at ducking the blame for financial turmoil. The spin isn't the smooth-running engine it once was. GRAHAM GRANT: Is it time to let Westminster take back control of tax?

One million households face council tax hikes of up to 15% after Bradford and Cheshire East became latest town halls to warn they are at risk of going bust Labour-run Bradford City and Cheshire East councils have become the latest to give notice they risk filing Section 114 notices - effectively going bankrupt - without financial help. One million households face council tax hikes of up to 15%

Jeremy Hunt could have £20 billion worth of extra headroom to cut taxes at next year's Budget, analysis suggests Jeremy Hunt could have more than £20billion extra headroom for tax cuts at next year's Budget as borrowing costs fall and wage growth boosts Treasury coffers. Jeremy Hunt could have £20bn of extra headroom to cut taxes

Another poll shows Labour lead slipping as Tories push for tax cuts and tougher curbs on immigration Research by More in Common has detected a four-point dip in Keir Starmer's advantage in a week - although the gap is still a commanding 12 points. Another poll shows Labour lead slipping amid row on tax and migration

Town halls in cash crisis: One in five council bosses fear they will follow Nottingham and Birmingham councils next year and declare themselves bankrupt Nearly one in five council bosses fear that the local authorities they run will declare themselves bankrupt next year, following Nottingham (HQ pictured) and Birmingham councils. 1 in 5 council bosses fear they will go bankrupt next year

The UK risks losing its leadership role if it does not give Ukraine £2.6 billion in military aid, Ben Wallace warns In his first backbench intervention since resigning as defence secretary in August, Ben Wallace said 'now is the time to double down on our support'. Wallace: UK risks losing leadership role if Ukraine doesn't get £2.6bn

As Labour-run Nottingham City Council becomes the SEVENTH to declare bankruptcy since 2018, experts warn 20 or 30 more could follow in the next few years... so could YOURS be next? Nottingham City Council has become the seventh local authority to declare bankruptcy since 2018, but insiders tell MailOnline up to 30 more councils could follow suit over the next few years. Nottingham Council declares bankruptcy, but dozens more will follow

Pension rise at risk as Rishi Sunak and Keir Starmer both refuse to commit to the triple lock both the Prime Minister and the Labour leader declined to guarantee the triple lock's future when asked whether it would be included in their manifestos for the next election, due next year. Pension rise at risk as Rishi Sunak and Keir Starmer refuse to commit

Business minister raises the alarm on the tourist tax, saying the government is 'very concerned' about its impact on companies Kevin Hollinrake said Cabinet colleagues would 'make our views known very strongly' to the Treasury as it reviews whether to reinstate tax-free shopping for overseas visitors. Business minister raises the alarm on the tourist tax

Bank of England governor says he is just being a 'realist' after backlash at his 'ultra-pessimistic' view about the UK's economic prospects Andrew Bailey was heavily criticised for comments earlier this week where he warned the economic outlook was among the worst he had ever seen. Bank of England chief says he is a 'realist' after backlash at gloom

Anger over OECD call to axe state pension triple lock to pay for Net Zero The OECD's proposal was immediately slapped down by Rishi Sunak's spokesman, who said the Government is 'very clearly committed' to the triple lock Anger erupts over the OECD's call to axe the pension triple lock

EDDIE BARNES: They will try to blame Westminster. But whingeing SNP are entirely to blame for Scottish Budget shambles With a couple of weeks to go until the SNP unveils a brutal Budget for Scotland's public services, Finance Secretary Shona Robison has been out with her roller - by getting her excuses in early. The SNP is ENTIRELY to blame for the Scottish Budget shambles

Chancellor Jeremy Hunt's plan to sell off NatWest shares 'could cost taxpayers £28bn' The Chancellor recently revived Margaret Thatcher's 'tell Sid' campaign as he revealed plans to sell off state-owned shares in the bank to the public. Chancellor's plan to sell NatWest shares 'could cost taxpayers £28bn'

Rishi Sunak rejects claims that Britain faces a new wave of austerity after tax-cutting pre-election Autumn Statement - saying public spending will still be higher than before Covid He used a TV interview to hit back at warnings from economists that his fiscal plans will result in painful and 'implausible' savings for already-squeezed departments and public services. Rishi Sunak rejects claims that Britain faces a new wave of austerity

Rishi Sunak 'agreed to raise salary threshold for migrants to £40,000 in deal with Suella Braverman' The Prime Minister is alleged to have agreed a four-point plan to deal tackle migration with Mrs Braverman, according to documents seen by the Telegraph. Rishi 'agreed to raise migrant salary threshold in deal with Suella'

A vote for Nigel Farage's lot would put Starmer in No 10, warns Rishi Sunak... but he admits he's 'too busy' to watch the former UKIP leader on I'm A Celeb MAIL ON SUNDAY EXCLUSIVE: Speaking to the Mail on Sunday, PM Rishi Sunak said: 'A vote for everyone who is not a Conservate is a vote to put Keir Starmer into office.' A vote for Nigel Farage's lot would put Starmer in No 10, warns Sunak

DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Shift stealth tax into reverse, Chancellor DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Despite the 2p cut to National Insurance, forecasts warn the tax millstone will still get heavier for several years. DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Shift stealth tax into reverse, Chancellor

Britain will have sent nearly £24bn to the European Union in post-Brexit payments by next April, Treasury watchdog reveals Former Tory leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith (pictured) said: 'After this year we should tell Brussels 'that's your lot, we're not paying a penny more'. Britain will have sent nearly £24bn to the European Union

ANDREW NEIL: The Tories AND Labour lie to us about taxes. And both ignore the vital reforms that are needed to get Britain's economy firing ANDREW NEIL: The Conservative and Labour parties now blatantly lie to voters about taxes. 'The biggest tax cut in history,' blared the Tory propaganda machine... ANDREW NEIL: The Tories AND Labour lie to us about taxes

Tax-cut bounce for Rishi: Poll shows Tories surging by four points in the wake of Autumn Statement… but Labour is still 19 points ahead YouGov research shows Conservative support bouncing by four points as voters digested the package laid out by Chancellor Jeremy Hunt. Poll shows Tory recovery in the wake of tax-cutting Autumn Statement

The 'tourist tax' is blamed for fuelling a huge reduction in foreign holidaymakers' spending in the UK compared to before the pandemic Chancellor Jeremy Hunt chose not to restore VAT-free shopping for foreigners in Wednesday's Autumn Statement despite tourism bosses stating it would provide a boost for British firms. 'Tourist tax' blamed for huge reduction in foreign visitors' spending

DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Migrant surge is a slap in the face for voters DAILY MAIL COMMENT: In his Autumn Statement, Jeremy Hunt extolled the virtue of training home-grown workers to fill Britain's labour shortages. DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Migrant surge is a slap in the face for voters

Get ready for austerity part two: Economists warn the UK should brace itself for public spending cuts on the scale of George Osborne's measures following Jeremy Hunt's Autumn Statement IFS economists claimed Mr Hunt had 'pencilled in numbers that suggest he wants to try to wrestle the size of the state back down towards where it was in 2019' before the pandemic. UK warned of public spending cuts on scale of Osborne's measures

How much will YOUR energy bill go up? Use our calculator to find out how the 5% Ofgem price cap rise will affect your gas and electric costs in January A new online calculator can show you how much your energy bill will go up - as Ofgem announced that the average household energy bill will rise by £94 a year to £1,931 from January. Use our calculator to find out how much will YOUR energy bill rise

Are you really better off after National Insurance cuts? Use our calculator to find out how changes to tax, pensions and benefits in the Autumn Statement affects YOUR household budget The Chancellor cut National Insurance and made changes to tax and pensions in moves that will affect millions - and you can use our calculator to find out if you will really be better off. Are you better off after NI cuts? Use our calculator to find out

Tory panic over soaring immigration as net arrival numbers are revised UP to new record of 745,000 fuelled by non-EU arrivals from India, China, Pakistan, Ukraine and Nigeria The ONS drastically increased its figure for the year to December up from 606,000 to 745,000, a rise of 139,000, almost the same as the population of Cambridge . Tories hit panic button after net migration revised up to 745,000

Energy bills to rise by £94 from January plunging more cash-strapped families into misery as typical yearly household bill hits £1,928 Ofgem's energy price cap will increase by 5% from the current £1,834 to £1,928 from January 1 for a typical dual fuel household in England, Wales and Scotland. Energy price cap to rise to £1.928 plunging more families into misery

DAILY MAIL COMMENT: At last! Tories pull the trigger on tax cuts DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Jeremy Hunt has unleashed an Autumn Statement crammed with practical measures to help the strivers and businesses the Tories have traditionally championed DAILY MAIL COMMENT: At last! Tories pull the trigger on tax cuts

Householders living near electricity pylons will receive £10,000 off their bills, Jeremy Hunt says The plan is part of a package of reforms aimed at halving the time it takes to deliver new electricity networks from 14 to seven years. Householders living near pylons will receive £10,000 off their bills

STEPHEN GLOVER: I take my hat off to Jeremy Hunt's ingenuity. Let's hope it hasn't come too late to save us from Keir Starmer STEPHEN GLOVER: How did Jeremy Hunt do? Not badly. It was a very clever package. Mr Hunt is a master of detail, and has thought deeply and creatively about measures - all 110 of them. STEPHEN GLOVER: I take my hat off to Jeremy Hunt's ingenuity

ALEX BRUMMER: The Chancellor has restored order to the economy - and we're reaping the rewards ALEX BRUMMER: Not only is Chancellor Jeremy Hunt providing investment incentives for key domestic companies, he is also seeking to revitalise direct investment from foreign companies too ALEX BRUMMER: The Chancellor has restored order to the economy

QUENTIN LETTS: I thought Jeremy Hunt was making saucer eyes at your sketch writer... but his wife was sitting right behind me! QUENTIN LETTS: Jeremy Hunt began the Autumn Statement by bellowing, 'Mr Speaker, I come today with good news. It's my wife's birthday! And unlike me, she's looking younger every year.' QUENTIN LETTS: I thought Jeremy Hunt was making eyes at sketch writer

JASON GROVES: The election starts with Jeremy Hunt's Autumn Statement, but the Tories will need to go much further to win JASON GROVES: Jeremy Hunt set the scene for the Tories' election campaign with a mini-Budget designed to show that the party is ready to return to its tax-cutting traditions. JASON GROVES: Tories will need to go much further to win the election

'Time to get Sid investing again!': Jeremy Hunt revives Margaret Thatcher's 'tell Sid' campaign as he reveals ministers are mulling plans to sell off NatWest shares to the public The Chancellor used his Autumn Statement to announce he would 'explore options' for a retail offer as the Government looks to fully offload its stake in the bank by 2026. 'Tell Sid!': Jeremy Hunt mulling plans to sell off NatWest shares

Autumn Statement 2023: Pensioners will get an extra £18 a week as Jeremy Hunt unveils 8.5% state pension hike as Chancellor sticks to triple lock boosted by high inflation rate The Chancellor signed off an 8.5 per cent increase in the state pension, increasing the value of the new state pension by £17.33 a week - or more than £900 a year. Pensioners in line for 8.5% state pension hike in the Autumn Statement