Neal Maupay should be EMBARRASSED by his behaviour... who will he wind up this weekend? Listen to the It's All Kicking Off podcast

England will travel to Germany for the Euros this summer and partners will join

The wives and girlfriends of England stars have been warned not to show off jewellery on social media ahead of the Euros, according to a report.

The move comes after a number of high-profile Premier League players' houses were broken into in recent times, including Jack Grealish and Joelinton.

Grealish's mansion in Cheshire was raided for £1million worth of jewellery by thieves on Boxing Day. The forward was playing against Everton at Goodison Park at the time of the burglary, while it is thought his relatives were at his home watching him.

According to The Sun, the burglary gang attempted to raid the mansion one month before the attack but were scared off when they spotted a police car nearby, while Newcastle midfielder Joelinton had his house burgled last month.

According to The Mirror, WAGs have been warned not to show off their expensive jewellery and avoid giving potential thieves targets with houses set to be empty more often than not during the European Championship.

England WAGS have been warned not to show off jewellery on social media. Pictured from left to right: Charlotte Trippier, Megan Pickford, Fern Maguire, Annie Kilner and Anouska Santos

The house of Jack Grealish and wife Sasha Attwood was burgled on Boxing Day, with £1million worth of jewellery stolen

England players and their partners will be jetting off to Germany in June for the European Championships

Your browser does not support iframes.

The Euros will take place this summer, running from June 14 to July 14 in Germany.

England have been drawn in a group with Denmark, Serbia and Slovenia, and will have ambitions of going one step further than their final loss in 2021.

A number of big names based in England are set to head to the tournament with Gareth Southgate's side, including Declan Rice, Harry Maguire and Jordan Pickford expected to be named in the nation's 23-man squad.

The likes of Jude Bellingham and captain Harry Kane - two names almost guaranteed to be on the plane - are based abroad.

Maja Lindelof (right), wife of Manchester United star Victor (left) hid in a panic room with her two children as her house was burgled

Gareth Southgate's England side will look to go better than they did in 2021 and win the Euros this summer

It is reported that England WAGs have been given a security update ahead of travel and have access to a document that advises they do not show off jewellery online.

It is also reported that some of the England players have contacted architects about installing panic rooms in their homes, which Manchester United defender Victor Lindelof has in his home in Manchester.

His wife and two children are said to have hidden in the room when their home was raided in 2022.