Nathan Ake has revealed that he wants to collaborate with fellow 'musical' Man City team-mates Jack Grealish and Bernardo Silva.

While the Treble winners may have gotten into their groove on the pitch in recent weeks, it seems the Netherlands international wants to do so off of it as well.

Ake, 28, revealed his passion for playing the piano - a skill developed since lockdown - which prompted him to team up with Casio Music UK to donate 10 Casio pianos to some of Manchester's most disadvantaged schools experiencing a lack of funding in relation to music provision.

The initiative, titled 'Playing for Change', sees both the player and the organisation make a gesture that speaks to their shared passion for ensuring access to the benefits of music education for all children.

Speaking to ITV to publicise their message, Ake also shared that Grealish and Silva have musical traits too.

Nathan Ake has revealed that he wants to collaborate with fellow 'musical' Man City team-mates Jack Grealish and Bernardo Silva

Ake claimed that Grealish (L) is the DJ within the City squad and Silva (R) 'likes to sing'

Your browser does not support iframes.

'Jack [Grealish] really likes to play the DJ, we have people who are musical people,' Ake said.

'Bernardo [Silva] likes to sing, we have people who like music, so they don't mind.'

When asked whether he'd musically collaborated with the Portuguese playmaker, Ake said: 'We haven't done it yet, but I think we need to try it sometime!' .

The defender went on to discuss his piano playing skills, which he admitted he became 'obsessed' over in recent years.

He continued: 'In lockdown we had a lot of time, I thought to myself I want to try something new; piano is a nice instrument to play by yourself, so I ordered a piano and just started to practice.

'I got really obsessed, I was playing every day, to see and feel the progress that I was making, that motivated me even more to play.'

'The reward you get practicing every day, every day, every day and suddenly it clicks and you can play a song that gives you the satisfaction and the reward.

'You see all the hard work you've put in and in the end you're able to do it. It's a similar thing with football, where you train every day, you work hard, you be able to reach a good level.'

Despite City's somewhat slow start to the campaign, Ake says they have 'that same hunger'

While City may have got off to a slow start by their impeccable standards, Ake claims the Treble winners do still have 'that same hunger' inside them.

'We knew what we did last season was incredible, everyone was so proud of each other, but I don't know everyone has this feeling that it's not enough, you can't just bank on last season and that's it.

'Every time we came in, every day the manager made sure we made the same level. He's never satisfied, and he brings that over to us, making sure we keep that same hunger.'