With an interior measuring just 7.2 by 7.2 feet-wide, most of us would feel pretty claustrophobic after a few hours on the International Space Station (ISS).

But one Russian cosmonaut has made the ISS his second home, having spent more than 878 days on board.

Oleg Kononenko has set a new world record for total time spent in space, surpassing his compatriot Gennady Padalka who logged more than 878 days in orbit.

And he's not stopping there.

Kononenko is expected to reach a total of 1,000 days in space on June 5 - and by late September he will have clocked 1,110 days.

Oleg Kononenko has set a new world record for total time spent in space, surpassing his compatriot Gennady Padalka who logged more than 878 days in orbit

With an interior measuring just 7.2 by 7.2 feet-wide, most of us would feel pretty claustrophobic after a few hours on the International Space Station (ISS)

'I fly into space to do my favourite thing, not to set records,' Kononenko told TASS in an interview from the ISS, where he is orbiting about 263 miles (423 km) above the Earth.

'I am proud of all my achievements, but I am more proud that the record for the total duration of human stay in space is still held by a Russian cosmonaut.'

The 59-year-old took the top spot from Padalka, who accumulated a total of 878 days, 11 hours, 29 minutes and 48 seconds, Roscosmos said.

The Soviet Union spooked the West in the early years of the space race by being first to launch a satellite to orbit the Earth - Sputnik 1, in 1957 - and then Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin became the first man to travel into space in 1961.

'I fly into space to do my favourite thing, not to set records,' Kononenko told TASS in an interview from the ISS, where he is orbiting about 263 miles (423 km) above the Earth

WHICH ASTRONAUT HOLDS THE RECORD FOR THE LONGEST CONTINUOUS SPACE FLIGHT? That distinction belongs to Valeri Polyakov, who lived aboard the Mir space station between January 8th 1994 and March 22nd 1995. When Polyakov landed back on Earth 437 days, 17 hours and 38 minutes later, he had travelled nearly 187 million miles and made 7,075 orbits of the Earth. Upon landing on Earth, he reportedly refused to be carried out of the capsule as is the case with most, to prove that humans would be able to work on Mars even after a long journey. According to space historian Philip Barker, Polyakov climbed out himself, walked to a nearby chair, and smoked a cigarette stolen from a friend. Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sciencetech/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_2 - ->

But after the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union, Russia's space programme grappled with massive funding shortages and corruption.

Officials under President Vladimir Putin have repeatedly vowed to turn around the decline of Russia's space programmes, though serious problems still remain, according to officials and space analysts.

Kononenko said that he worked out regularly to counter the physical effects of 'insidious' weightlessness, but that it was on returning to earth that the realisation came of how much life he had missed out on.

'I do not feel deprived or isolated,' he said.

'It is only upon returning home that the realisation comes that for hundreds of days in my absence the children have been growing up without a papa.

'No one will return this time to me.'

He said cosmonauts could now use video calls and messaging to keep in touch with relatives but getting ready for each new space flight became more difficult due to technological advances.

'The profession of a cosmonaut is becoming more complicated. The systems and experiments are becoming more complicated. I repeat, the preparation has not become easier,' he said.

Kononenko dreamed of going to space as a child and enrolled in an engineering institute, before undergoing cosmonaut training.

His first space flight was in 2008.

His current trip to the ISS launched last year on a Soyuz MS-24.

The ISS is one of the few international projects on which the United States and Russia still cooperate closely.

In December, Roscosmos said that a cross-flight programme with NASA to the ISS had been extended until 2025.

Relations in other areas between the two countries have broken down since Russia's invasion of Ukraine nearly two years ago, to which Washington responded by sending arms to Kyiv and imposing successive rounds of sanctions on Moscow.