Marathon world record holder Kelvin Kiptum has died at the age of 24 following a car crash in his native Kenya.

His coach, Rwanda's Gervais Hakizimana, was also killed in the road accident near Kaptagat, an area in the south-west of the country renowned as a training base for distance runners.

Kiptum made history in October when he clocked 2:00.35 to win the Chicago Marathon, smashing his fellow Kenyan Eliud Kipchoge's world record by 34 seconds. His landmark time was only officially ratified by World Athletics last Tuesday.

World Athletics president Seb Coe led the tributes to Kiptum on Sunday night, saying he was 'an incredible athlete leaving an incredible legacy'.

He wrote on X: 'We are shocked and deeply saddened to learn of the devastating loss of Kelvin Kiptum and his coach, Gervais Hakizimana.

Marathon world record holder Kelvin Kiptum has died at the age of 24

Kiptum (L) and his coach Gervais Hakizimana (R) reportedly died in a road accident in Kenya's Kaptagat area at 11pm local time

Kiptum made history last October when he clocked 2:00.35 to win the Chicago Marathon

World Athletics president Seb Coe paid tribute to Kiptum and Hakizimana on Sunday night

We are shocked and deeply saddened to learn of the devastating loss of Kelvin Kiptum and his coach, Gervais Hakizimana.



On behalf of all World Athletics we send our deepest condolences to their families, friends, teammates and the Kenyan nation.



It was only earlier this week in… pic.twitter.com/dDBKgjXNKL — Seb Coe (@sebcoe) February 11, 2024

'On behalf of all World Athletics we send our deepest condolences to their families, friends, teammates and the Kenyan nation.

'It was only earlier this week in Chicago, the place where Kelvin set his extraordinary marathon world record, that I was able to officially ratify his historic time.

'An incredible athlete leaving an incredible legacy, we will miss him dearly.'

Kiptum also won his first London Marathon last April in a course record of 2:01.25, which was then the second fastest marathon time ever. It followed an eye-catching victory on his marathon debut in Valencia in December 2022.

Kiptum would have been the favourite to win gold at this summer's Olympics in Paris, in what was set to be an almighty showdown against his team-mate Kipchoge, the 39-year-old two-time defending champion.

Kipchonge took to X to express his sadness at the news. A post, topped with the words 'Rest in peace Kelvin,' read: 'I am deeply saddened by the tragic passing of the Marathon World record holder and rising star Kelvin Kiptum.

'An athlete who had a whole ligfe oahead of him to achieve incredible greatness.

'I offer my deepest condolences to his young family. May god comfort you during this trying time.'

Devastating news as we mourn the loss of a remarkable individual, Kelvin Kiptum, World Record holder and Kenyan athletics icon. Together with his coach, they tragically passed on in an accident tonight. 1/2 pic.twitter.com/1Dmgyyhsk4 — Raila Odinga (@RailaOdinga) February 11, 2024

The 24-year-old would have been the favourite to win gold at this summer's Olympics in Paris

Raila Odinga, Kenya's prime minister from 2008 to 2013, wrote on X: 'Devastating news as we mourn the loss of a remarkable individual, Kelvin Kiptum, World Record holder and Kenyan athletics icon. Together with his coach, they tragically passed on in an accident tonight.

'My deepest condolences to his loved ones, friends, and the entire athletics fraternity. Our nation grieves the profound loss of a true hero.'

Kenya's minister for sports Ababu Namwamba wrote: 'Devastatingly sickening! Kenya has lost a special gem. Lost for words.'

London Marathon event director Hugh Brasher wrote: 'Kelvin had the sport of marathon running in his feet and at his feet. He was a "once in a generation" athlete who was set to redefine the boundaries of our sport.

'Three marathons, three wins. The fastest marathon debutant in Valencia, London's course record holder and the world record holder in Chicago, all within the space of less than 12 months. His was a flame that burned so bright and last night was tragically put out.

'As a sport we mourn for a life so tragically cut short, a talent and a work ethos that was only starting to be appreciated and a man that we had only just started to know.

'Our thoughts are with his family and friends and those of his coach Gervais.

'We hope that Sharon Chepkurui Kosgei, who was travelling with them, makes a full and speedy recovery.'