Tight hairpin bends lead to a terrifyingly steep gradient. Crumbling tarmac seems to rear up like a tidal wave in front of you.

A stream of rainwater splashes down the middle of the road like a mountain stream.

Last time I tackled the road, I reached the steepest bit, reached down to change gear but found I was already in first. That was when a nonchalant sheep strolled out in front of me.

On a rainy day it seems incredible that Hardknott Pass in England's Lake District is officially classified as a normal public road. It is so steep and difficult that drivers are often warned to take enormous detours that can double the distance and add an hour to the journey.

Now some are calling for drivers to avoid the road altogether.

The hairpins of the east face of Hardknott Pass, a road that can take drivers by surprise

The Institute of Advanced Motorists (IAM) is telling road users: 'It has steep gradients and is single-track road, so depending on the rider or driver's experience it could be one to avoid. We don't recommend putting yourself in danger.'

IAM spokeswoman Heather Butcher says: 'You can read reviews online from various sources confirming it's a challenging road, a thrill etc but we would advise all riders and drivers to approach roads like this with caution.'

Even Cumbria Police say that 'people shouldn't seek out the road to challenge themselves'.

'We put guests off from coming over Hardknott Pass,' says local multiple holiday home-owner Greg Poole and even Gill Haigh, MD of Cumbria Tourism, warns: 'We'd advise anyone to check the weather before setting off, as well as taking into account the time of year, as the high points can get treacherous.'

One recent Tripadvisor reviewer who innocently drove up the pass with her family reported she 'thought we were all going to die'. Her ten-year-old son asked for his inhaler due to a panic attack. 'Do yourself a favour and walk instead,' she wrote.

The west face of Hardknott Pass, which has gradients of up to 33 per cent. The Institute of Advanced Motorists is telling road users: 'It has steep gradients and is single track road, so depending on the rider or driver's experience it could be one to avoid. We don't recommend putting yourself in danger'

At the same time as all these worries, the infamous route has become something of a landmark. Some consider it is a rare example of old-school road that should be celebrated.

Hardknott is a short stretch in very mountainous terrain just behind England's highest peak, Scafell Pike, and our deepest lake, Wastwater.

Colourful owner of nearby Muncaster Castle, Peter Frost-Pennington, drives via Hardknott regularly and calls it 'one of the most exciting and incredible roads to drive, cycle or walk in the whole world', adding: 'It should be on everyone's bucket list.'

And Lakes holiday home-owner Greg Poole may warn his visiting guests to take a different route – but chooses to take Hardknott himself. 'I love the drive,' he says. 'It's exciting, challenging, beautiful, sometimes scary but never boring - you won't fall asleep at the wheel for sure.'

This stunning picture shows the view west from Hardknott Pass towards the village of Eskdale

The problem for Hardknott is that naïve tourists set off from the genteel atmosphere of Ambleside's tearooms for a pretty drive westwards. Often they head straight into Hardknott – one of Europe's most challenging stretches of road, with a sequence of one-in-three hairpins.

What is Hardknott Pass really like to drive?

The road approaching Hardknott rises gently at first from a small lake. Signs warn drivers: 'Narrow road. Severe bends.' By then it's too late. There's no alternative route.

The road soon becomes a sequence of ridiculous hairpins the width of a bridleway, with a constantly disintegrating surface and unguarded drops of hundreds of feet.

Hardknott's hardest section is less than a couple of miles but rises 1,037ft (316m) with a 25 per cent gradient. The final scary section is a breathtaking 33 per cent. The 'unsuitable for caravans' sign alongside seems a humorous understatement.

These gradients are steeper than most Alpine passes and exceed the famous mountain stages of the Tour de France cycling race.

A few elite cyclists manage to scale the pass. Mailonline Travel Editor Ted Thornhill bravely attempted the pass on two wheels last summer and reported how he was forced to get off and push his bike at several points.

Wild road: One recent Tripadvisor reviewer who innocently drove up the pass with her family reported she 'thought we were all going to die'

A Eurosport documentary in 2019 followed a cyclist on a strict six-week training regime to prepare for tackling Hardknott. At the end, presumably to the programme-makers' horror, he still failed to make it up the pass.

My own experience of Hardknott was as a car passenger with a super-confident military team heading to climb Scafell Pike. Unaware of the perils of the pass, we hit the hairpins amid torrents of rain in the early hours. The officer driving struggled as the wheels repeatedly span and the engine screamed.

Amid a tsunami of special-force swear words we made it up, but the driver stayed in the car to recover while we scaled the peak and afterwards he took the longer route back.

My second visit was descending – with a businessman in his new Jaguar. I'd warned about the Hardknott descent but he thought his gleaming Jag would easily cope with a little Cumbrian slope.

Mailonline Travel Editor Ted Thornhill (above) bravely attempted the pass on two wheels last summer

Within seconds of cresting the brim of the pass however he discovered a style of road he had never encountered before. His wide luxury limousine was completely inappropriate.

He pulled onto the rocky verge to regain breath. Red-faced and silent, he proceeded to the foot of the hill at single-figure miles per hour.

Finally, I set out to tackle Hardknott both down and up in my own car.

Yes, at times it feels like you may topple over backwards but if your car is 100 per cent, the weather fine and you get your revs and gearchanges right, it's all rather fun.

For drivers in this age of health and safety, smart motorways and self-driving cars, Hardknott seems a flashback to the time when you had to concentrate as if your life depended on it (it does).

The reward for all that frantic steering and gear-changing is access to a mountain landscape of wild beauty. Waterfalls, sheer rock faces and views must be the same as they were for the Romans who first built the road.

Cliffs soar into the clouds either side of Hardknott while hardy mountain sheep wander confidently across the road. They don't worry about 'traffic'. To them it must seem that the cars are the outsiders.

Devon Moods: Landscape Photography Inspired by Devon, with pictures by Gary Holpin and words by Simon Heptinstall, is out now and available through Amazon, priced £15.99.