The 77th BAFTA Awards saw the best and biggest names in film descend upon the The Royal Festival Hall in London on Sunday.

The biggest night in British film returned with actor David Tennant as host, with an array of guest presenters on hand to deliver awards throughout the night.

Oppenheimer won Best Film as well as sweeping the board in the major categories at the ceremony.

The epic biographical thriller led the wins with seven gongs, including Best Actor for Cillian Murphy, Best Supporting Actor for Robert Downey Jr. and Best Director for Christopher Nolan. It had the most nominations with 13.

Yet it wasn't just the winners that made the headlines as there were plenty of emotional, hilarious, and incredible moments on stage as the stars celebrated the best films of 2023.

Now MailOnline takes a look back at the top viral moments of the 2024 BAFTAs.

Michael J Fox received a standing ovation from the stars in attendance at the 2024 British Academy Film Awards on Sunday, as he took to the stage in a wheelchair

Michael J Fox's standing ovation

Michael J Fox received a standing ovation from Hollywood's biggest stars at the 2024 British Academy Film Awards on Sunday, as he took to the stage in a wheelchair to present Best Film to Oppenheimer.

The actor, 62, who has battled Parkinson's since 1991, was helped to the podium to announce that Best Film had been awarded to Christopher Nolan's Oppenheimer, one of seven gongs for the epic.

After entering the stage in a wheelchair, Michael earned a hugely warm reception from stars including Margot Robbie , Bradley Cooper and Barry Keoghan, who were in attendance at London's Royal Festival Hall.

The legendary 80s film star was visibly touched by the reaction, as he supported himself on the podium to reveal the nominees and eventual winner.

Michael was just 29 when he was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease in 1991, and went public with the information in 1998 .

In 2023, the star released an Apple TV+ documentary about his career and living with the devastating disease, which earned him a BAFTA nomination.

While Michael did present the final award of the night, he was also in attendance after his documentary Still: A Michael J Fox Story received a nod for Documentary.

The actor who has battled Parkinson's since 1991, was helped to the podium to announce that Best Film had been awarded to Christopher Nolan's Oppenheimer

Sophie Ellis-Bextor rip-roaring performance

Sophie Ellis-Bextor delivered a showstopping performance of her iconic Noughties hit Murder On The Dancefloor at the Awards.

The hitmaker's song soared back into the charts last year after it featured in Emerald Fennell's acclaimed film Saltburn.

As Sophie took to the stage during the ceremony at London's Royal Festival Hall, she wowed in a dramatic black and orange puffball gown.

The star's look boasted a black netted skirt with an orange overlay, and a plunging corset top.

Sophie's song featured in Saltburn's viral closing moments, which saw Barry Keoghan's character dance naked around the Saltburn mansion.

Speaking ahead of the ceremony, Sophie admitted that recreating Barry's naked dance 'may be a bit much' for the awards.

When asked about Keoghan re-doing it, Ellis-Bextor told the PA news agency on the red carpet: 'It might be a bit much for him first thing but we have had a moment together already...

'I was lucky enough to meet all the Saltburn cast back in November in LA at the premiere, so it'd be nice to see them again because I think what they've achieved with the film is wonderful so I just want to toast that.'

Sophie Ellis-Bextor delivered a showstopping performance of her iconic Noughties hit Murder On The Dancefloor at the Awards

Ryan Gosling's VERY cheeky wink

The 2024 British Academy Film Awards saw an amusing exchange between Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone as she took to the stage during Sunday's ceremony.

The star was awarded the Leading Actress prize for her performance in Poor Things, and while making her way to the podium, Ryan winked at her.

The pair previously starred together in La La Land and Crazy, Stupid Love, and were both nominated at this year's ceremony, Ryan for his performance in Barbie, and Emma for Poor Things.

Fans of the actors were happy to see them supporting each other on the big night.

'Sebastian applauding Mia Dolan actually,' wrote one on X, mentioning Ryan and Emma's characters from La La Land.

Another mentioned 2017, which was when La La Land took over the awards season: 'This award season has such 2017 vibes with these two.'

The 2024 British Academy Film Awards saw an amusing exchange between Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone as she took to the stage during Sunday's ceremony

Samantha Morton's impassioned speech

Samantha Morton accepted the British film academy's highest honour - the Bafta fellowship - and dedicated it to children in care.

The English actress and director, 46, collected the prestigious award from producer David Heyman, who she worked with on Fantastic Beasts.

Samantha was emotional as she accepted the fellowship on Sunday at the ceremony, and hailed the win as 'nothing short of a miracle'.

The star, who grew up in foster care, used her acceptance speech to pay tribute to Ken Loach's 1969 film Kes - which she said left her 'forever changed'.

'Seeing poverty and people like me on the screen, I recognised myself - representation matters,' Samantha said.

Ahead of her acceptance, a clip played which was filled with tributes from her Minority Report co-star Tom Cruise , as well as collaborators Susan Lynch, Molly Windsor and Daniel Mays.

Producer David described her as a 'rare breed and true artist'.

'This is nothing short of a miracle,' Samantha said during her acceptance speech.

'When I first saw Ken Loach's Kes on a huge telly that was wheeled into my classroom I was forever changed.'

Samantha said she would tell her younger self: 'You matter, don't give up, the stories we tell, they have the power to change people's lives.

'Film changed my life, it transformed me and it led me here today.'

She added: 'I dedicate this award to every child in care, or who has been in care, who is suffering or didn't survive.'

Samantha received the award in recognition of her contribution to British cinema over the course of her career.

Samantha Morton accepted the British film academy's highest honour - the Bafta fellowship - and dedicated it to children in care at the ceremony

Oppenheimer sweeps the board

Oppenheimer won Best Film as well as sweeping the board in the major categories at the EE BAFTA Film Awards.

The epic biographical thriller led the wins with seven gongs, including Best Actor for Cillian Murphy, Best Supporting Actor for Robert Downey Jr. and Best Director for Christopher Nolan. It had the most nominations with 13.

Murphy, 47 - who plays the titular role in Nolan's atomic bomb saga - picked up the prize at the prestigious awards ceremony.

He triumphed against Bradley Cooper for Maestro, Colman Domingo for Rustin, Paul Giamatti for The Holdovers, Barry Keoghan for Saltburn and Teo Yoo for Past Lives.

Accepting the trophy, he said: 'Oh boy, holy moly, thank you very, very much BAFTA.'

He paid tribute to 'the most dynamic, kindest producer-director partnership in Hollywood: Chris Nolan and Emma Thomas, thank you for seeing something in me that I probably didn't see in myself.'

The Irish actor said to Nolan: 'Thank for always pushing me and demanding excellence because that is what you deliver time and time again.'

Nolan also acknowledged his 'fellow nominees and my Oppenhomies', adding: 'I know it's a cliche to say, but I'm in awe of you.'

Fans were thrilled the film was recognised so much at the ceremony, with one penning on X: 'All roads lead to Oppenheimer, best film ever made!'

Another said: 'The BAFTAs belongs to Oppenheimer. Truly well-deserved', with one adding: 'So glad to see #Oppenheimer do so well at the #BAFTAs!'

Cillian Murphy accepts the Leading Actor Award for Oppenheimer

Cillian, Christopher Nolan, Charles Roven and Emma Thomas accept Best Film Award

Ted Lasso star's 'epic fail'

BAFTA viewers were left 'switching off' their televisions over a Ted Lasso star's cringe 'epic fail'.

Nick Mohammed took to the stage with his Mr Swallow act, however, not everyone was impressed.

Nick's alter-ego from Leeds, whom the actor has been portraying on stage and TV screens for over a decade, arrived on roller skates in the middle of the star-studded event.

After the 'unfunny' performance, one fan fumed on X: 'Who signed this off as funny. It's cringe and uncomfortable #BAFTAs.'

Another wrote: 'Omg it was so bad! Beyond cringe and so unfunny! Literally what was the point?! #BAFTAs.'

Someone added: 'I had to turn over. I just couldn't. #BAFTAs.'

Viewers were left 'switching off' their televisions over a Ted Lasso star Nick Mohammed's cringe 'epic fail'

Viewers fume as David Beckham refers to 'soccer' instead of 'football'

The BAFTAs 2024 viewers fumed as David Beckham referred to 'soccer' instead of 'football' as he presented a gong.

The former sporting star, 48, looked dapper on the stage as he gave out an award and used the American phrasing.

He looked smart at the event as he posed on the red carpet earlier in the night in a black suit and crisp white shirt.

Reacting to his use of 'soccer', one viewer wrote on Twitter : 'that might be true in football, or soccer-' DAVID BECKHAM YOU ARE ON THE BAFTAS DON'T YOU DARE PANDER TO THE AMERICANS!!!'

A second wrote: 'David Beckham calling football soccer at a British awards show.'

A third said: 'David Beckham it's a British awards show, you don't need to mention soccer #EEBAFTAs.'

A fourth said: 'david beckham saying football or soccer?'

Another penned: 'Don't say soccer, Dave. Pandering to the Americans #DavidBeckham #BAFTAs.'

The BAFTAs 2024 viewers fumed as David Beckham referred to 'soccer' instead of 'football' as he presented a gong on Sunday

Emma Stone had an awkward moment when she collected her Best Actress award

Emma Stone suffers awkward blunder

Emma Stone had an awkward moment when she collected her Best Actress award at the BAFTAs.

The Hollywood star, 35, took home the top prize for her role as Bella Baxter in the sci-fi comedy Poor Things but bumped into the cameraman as she leapt out of her seat when her name was announced.

The Cruella star could be seen gesturing at the camera before making her way up to the stage to collect her prize.

After finally collecting her award, Emma made sure to thank her mother Krista for believing in her dreams.