Forget quiet, romantic getaways.

Adventurous holidays are the best way to spice up your sex life, a study found.

Couples who go on 'self-expanding' trips that involve learning a new skill, trying a new sport or sampling new food have more passion, physical intimacy and relationship satisfaction.

Researchers found the extra boost in the bedroom lasted long after couples returned if they went on at least two thrilling trips a year.

Meanwhile, those who spent their holidays lounging on beaches or relaxing in spa retreats had less passion and engaged in less physical intimacy, such as hand-holding, kissing and sex.

Forget quiet, romantic getaways - adventurous holidays are the best way to spice up your sex life, a study found (stock image)

READ MORE: Psychedelic drugs can improve your sex life, study finds Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sciencetech/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Prof John Coffey, of Arizona State University, said: 'An experience-rich holiday with your partner may improve your love life even after the trip is over.

'These experiences don't need to be wildly adventurous if extreme activities aren't your thing.

'Activities as simple as trying a challenging hike or a new local cuisine together are enough to explain the higher post-vacation passion.

'Our research found this held true no matter the length of a couple's relationship, so whether you've been together one year or 30 years, travelling together and trying new things is one good way to maintain intimacy and passion.'

The study, published in Elsevier journal Annals of Tourism, looked at the experiences of 450 couples.

It found those who engaged in exciting or 'self-expanding' activities while on holiday reported increased romantic passion and better relationship satisfaction when they got back.

Couples who go on 'self-expanding' trips that involve learning a new skill, trying a new sport or sampling new food have more passion, physical intimacy and relationship satisfaction

They also enjoyed more physical intimacy and affection than those

The researchers suggested this was because memorable shared experiences cause happiness and enforce relationship bonds, making the couple feel closer.

'Self-expanding' experiences and situations do not have to be costly or complicated, it added - simply trying new things or exploring new places can be enough.

Prof Coffey said: 'We now have empirical evidence that holidays serve an important role in the long-term health and maintenance of romantic relationships.

'The tourism industry can capitalise on our research by providing and promoting an array of self-expanding activities.'