Chelsea's capacity to hit new lows in this season of strife and self-harm is almost becoming impressive. At this rate of descent they will strike oil before the close of their campaign.

For the second time in a week, they conceded four in an embarrassing defeat, but this was not against Liverpool away. No, this was at home, in their sanctuary, against a side that is merely very good, well coached and pulling in one direction.

And therein lay the key differences with Chelsea. They are a spineless team. A fractious, whiney team. A team lacking leaders and lacking competency and here they were reduced to a howling mess by Wolves.

Truly, this was a battering and the sort that will severely intensify the questions around Mauricio Pochettino’s future - the fact is they are looking no better with him than they were with Graham Potter. That goes both for the statistics and the performances, of which this was arguably the worst of a bad bunch.

We all know that the problems at Chelsea go deeper than the manager, and Pochettino is a high-quality one at that, but those silly souls responsible for the rot at this club will also be those making the decisions about his future.

Matheus Cunha (left) scored a hat-trick for Wolves as they beat Chelsea 4-2 at Stamford Bridge

The Blues hit yet another new low in a dismal season and were jeered by both their own and away fans

Chelsea had no style in their play or cohesion in their group, with player arguing on the field

Your browser does not support iframes.

If there is a saving grace for Pochettino, it is that the escalating aggression of Chelsea’s support is still being channelled, predominantly, towards the players and the ownership. That will help for now, but it’s a fragile respite, especially given Chelsea were fortunate only four in this game against Gary O’Neil’s side.

The first two of those were huge ricochets off Thiago Silva and Axel Disasi that turned a 1-0 Chelsea lead into a 2-1 deficit, but to talk of deflections would be a deflection in itself. Wolves deserved everything they got and more, particularly Matheus Cunha, whose impressive season was supplemented with a hat-trick.

MATCH FACTS AND PLAYER RATINGS Chelsea (4-3-3): Petrovic 6; Gusto 4.5 (Gilchrist 80), Disasi 5, Silva 6, Chilwell 5 (Badiashile 80); Caicedo 5.5 (Jackson 62, 6), Fernandez 6, Gallagher 6.5; Sterling 6 (Mudryk 72, 6), Palmer 7, Nkunku 5 (Chukwuemeka 72, 6). Subs not used: Bettinelli, Begstron, Casadei, Madueke, Mudryk. Booked: Gusto Mauricio Pochettino 5 Wolves (3-4-3): Sa 6.5; Kilman 6.5, Dawson 7, Toti 6.5; Semedo 7, Lemina 7, Gomes 7.5 (Doherty 90), Ait-Nouri 8; Sarabia 6.5 (Doyle, 72, 6), Neto 8 (Bellegarde 72, 6), Cunha 8.5. Subs not used: Bentley, S. Bueno, Bueno, Griffiths, Chirewa, Fraser Booked: Samedo, Neto Gary O'Neil 7 Ref: Tim Robinson 7.5 Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sport/football/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

They got him for around £44million – in Chelsea money he must be worth around half a billion or more. He was exceptional here, as was Pedro Neto, who was involved in the second and third goals.

But Chelsea, woeful Chelsea. Even before Cole Palmer put them ahead, they were beyond poor, and afterwards they were hopeless. There was no style in their play, too many cheap concessions of possession, too many gaps behind the full backs, too many untracked runners, too many weak challenges, and no cohesion in their group – they were squabbling all afternoon.

Disasi and Silva. Silva and Ben Chilwell. Chilwell and Raheem Sterling. At a time when Chelsea need steel links, they resembled a daisy chain of sulkers and were twice as flimsy.

For a case in point about a team that cannot achieve consistency, look at Moises Caicedo. He made Palmer’s goal with a wonderful assist, but it was also his carelessness that led to Cunha’s leveller at 1-1. Not even counting the errors he got away with, he was the face of a side incapable of following one good act with another.

Granted, Chelsea still have the Carabao Cup final and a chance to salvage this season, but they are crawling to Wembley just a week or so after it seemed that corners were slowly being turned. The Liverpool defeat corrected that theory but this was even worse – within three minutes they had already faced two shots owing to mindless losses of possession in their own half.

It was on the 15-mark that the internal bickering started, but they were able to extract a lead amid the agitations. Caicedo was the architect, with a delivery of perfect weight and placement behind Toti, and Palmer’s finish was typical of his sublime talent. That was as good as it got because Cunha levelled within three minutes.

The Blues had led early through Cole Palmer but the lead was soon blown and things went downhill quickly

Cunha took charge, netting a brace before completing his hat-trick from the penalty spot

The Blues were defensively poor - Axel Disasi (left) scored an own goal to add to Chelsea's woes on the day

Pochettino must again go back to the drawing board as pressure on his job continues to mount

Again, it was Chelsea’s sloppiness at the root it, with Caicedo caught in possession near the halfway line. Joao Gomes led the counter forward, rolled left to Cunha and his hit took a big deflection off Silva and beat Djordje Petrovic.

The second was more fortuitous and involved less complicity from Pochettino’s side, though his analysis will likely identify how Neto was left unattended on his run into the space behind Chilwell, prior to squaring for Ait-Nouri. The finish appeared to be heading well wide, but once more there was a significant rerouting of the ball, this time via Disasi. It was given as an own goal.

Chelsea’s second half was typified by Malo Gusto twice being shouldered out of challenges in one move and the third goal followed that theme - Silva was easily brushed off by Neto on the run, shortly before the ball was pulled back for Cunha to bury. His hat-trick was wrapped up when he won and converted a penalty after Gusto leapt into a daft tackle.

Silva headed a consolation but there was no reviving this sorry Chelsea team.