Amber also suggested guests enjoy other attractions besides just the park rides

A former Disneyland VIP guide has revealed the five biggest regrets that guests often suffer when visiting the parks as a results of mistakes made with their planning.

Disneyland enthusiast Amber Wainwright dished to Business Insider about how to make the most of a trip to the self-described 'happiest place on Earth.'

Amber made a whole host of recommendations including not overdressing nor spending too much time on sit-down meals at the onsite restaurants.

She also urged customers to look beyond just the rides, embrace the rain and try going solo for the day.

Disneyland enthusiast Amber Wainwright dished to Business Insider about how to make the most of a trip to the self-described 'happiest place on Earth' (stock image)

Don't make their mistakes! Disney park guests biggest regrets revealed Donning over-the-top costumes or themed outfits

Wearing inappropriate footwear

Spending too much time at a park restaurant

Missing out on park attractions beyond the rides

Assuming park won't be fun because of light rain Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/travel/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Amber launched straight into her list of recommendations and began by advising visitors not to overdress for a busy day of activities.

She described seeing guests in Disney-themed attire as one of her 'favorite things' but also issued a word of caution.

'I've noticed that many park guests fail to remember that their outfits should also be functional.

'People often regret wearing heels, flip-flops, and brand-new shoes to Disneyland,' Amber warned.

She said that she had previously met a guest who came to the park in dress shoes.

And, after suffering severely aching feet, he was forced to have a pair of tennis shoes delivered to him via Uber.

But that is not the only stumbling block.

Disneyland offers a range of dining options for guests throughout the day but Amber told visitors to spend both their time and money wisely.

'If guests have limited time to explore the parks, spending two to three hours at a costly dining experience might not be worth it.

'I've seen the look of disappointment on people's faces when they finish an expensive dinner and realize they no longer have time to ride the number one attraction on their list,' she said.

Amber made a whole host of recommendations including not overdressing nor spending too much time on sit-down meals at the onsite restaurants (stock image)

Instead, the Disney expert suggested that guests set themselves a time limit on their meal breaks or opt for snacks on the go.

Next up, Amber encouraged guests to explore beyond just the rides.

'There are so many other things to do in the parks. The place is full of talented, hardworking staff members who create and perform in shows worth attending,' she explained.

The former employee recommended the park's parades, nighttime spectaculars and daily events - to name just a few.

Amber explained: 'The way I see it, it's not worth missing out on a great show because of a two-hour wait for a short ride.'

And, when it comes to weather, Amber urged visitors not to take a rain check.

'I love spending time in the parks when there's a light sprinkle of rain.

'As long as I have a coat and the rain isn't too heavy, I can have a great day without the sun beating down on me,' she said.

The Disneyland fan said that most attractions still operate and the park being less busy is an added bonus.

Last but not least, Amber offered that there were a lot of benefits to visiting Disneyland alone.

She concluded: 'When guests travel solo to Disney, they don't have to argue about what to do next, can use the single-rider line at some attractions, and operate on their own schedule.'