For many people, the idea of paradise conjures up visions of tropical beaches - but for this TikToker it’s the Isle of Skye.

Ema Shortel, 32, swapped city life in Edinburgh for a slower way of living on the island, located on the west coast of Scotland.

The former beauty therapist describes the spot as ‘the most beautiful place on earth’, with hectic city streets ditched for days spent waking up to her pet chickens and sprawling mountain views.

Ema documents her cosy life in the town of Elgol on her TikTok account (@earth.to.ema), where she has gained a whopping 82,000 followers and 1.1million likes.

She spoke to MailOnline Travel about her new way of living, and why she would never return to the city.

Ema Shortel, 32, swapped city life in Edinburgh for the Isle of Skye. She documents her cosy life in the town of Elgol on TikTok and has gained 82,000 followers

Ema wakes up to sprawling mountain views and describes the Isle of Skye as 'the most beautiful place on earth'

She moved to the Isle of Skye with her 36-year-old partner Frazer, who’s a builder, in 2020.

The pair bought a property with space for an extension and Frazer set about constructing a small holiday-let cabin.

That would eventually give the pair an income boosted by the jobs they took up on the island, with Frazer working as a joiner and Ema working as a social media manager for a local café and running a photography business.

But it wasn’t all smooth sailing.

Ema explained: ‘The move was difficult in the first couple of years as we were doing the build and trying to settle into our new life without knowing if the cabin would work out.’

After 14 months of hard work, the 'Cuillin View Cabin' was completed and the pair now run the cabin alongside their other jobs.

Ema moved to the Isle of Skye with her 36-year-old partner Frazer (above), who’s a builder, in 2020

The pair bought a property with space for an extension and Frazer set about constructing a small holiday-let cabin (above)

This image shows Frazer working on what is now Cuillin View Cabin (above)

Ema said: ‘We are so glad we stuck out the rough period as we are so in love with our lifestyle now.’

According to Ema, island life trumps city life in various ways, from ‘seeing the mountain views from our house’ to ‘being able to have chickens as pets’.

She said the air ‘feels so clean’ compared to the city, adding: ‘The stars and sunsets on a clear night are like nothing I’ve seen before as there is no light pollution.’

They also have wildlife on their doorstep, including highland cows and sheep.

She said: ‘My favourite thing about living here has to be the peace it brings me to know I can walk out my door and take a walk up the hill with my dogs and look at the beauty of the Cuillin mountains without seeing a single soul.’

Ema said it took a while for her and Frazer to settle into their new life but said they are 'so in love with their lifestyle now'

The sprawling Cuillin Hills take up the background in this photo

According to Ema, island life trumps city life in various ways, from ‘seeing the mountain views from our house’ to ‘being able to have chickens as pets’

Ema said they would never move back to the city as they are ‘very settled’ on the Isle of Skye. However, there are a couple of things she misses about life in Edinburgh.

She said: ‘We miss the convenience of the city, the coffee shops and vegan restaurants, the beautiful buildings and the ease of anything you need never being more than a mile away.’

While the population is scarce, with just 13,143 people compared to Edinburgh’s 558,676 residents, Ema said she’s managed to find her tribe through social media.

And, living in such a picturesque location, the couple welcome family members for visits in the summer months.

Ema said it brings her 'peace' to be able to take a walk with her dogs without seeing a single soul

Ema said the air 'feels so clean' compared to the city, adding: ‘The stars and sunsets on a clear night are like nothing I’ve seen before'

Wildlife on the couple's doorstep includes Highland cows

For those who fancy a visit to the island, Ema recommends a boat trip from the Elgol Pier with ‘Misty Isle Boat Trips’.

She said: ‘They take you out towards the Cuillin mountains and into Coruisk where they drop you off on the island and you can explore. I have never seen such beauty as I have on the days I take that boat trip.

‘There is also a 100 per cent chance of seeing cute seals and often dolphins in the summer!’

To see more from Ema visit her on TikTok at www.tiktok.com/@earth.to.ema. To book a stay at Cullin View Cabin visit direct.travelnest.com.