SHOPPING – Contains affiliated content. Products featured in this article are selected by our writers. If you make a purchase using links on this page, Daily Mail Australia will earn an affiliate commission. Click here for more information.

A 'miracle pant' that was one of the most viral buys of 2023 is set to return to shelves after receiving rave reviews from more than 10,000 customers.

Crafted by Melbourne brand Motto, the smoothing leather-look Miracle Pant promises to 'instantly slim and sculpt' without taking away from the wearer's natural curves.

The mother-daughter founders also make the bold claim that the new 2024 pants will see you 'drop a dress size instantly' while giving your booty a natural lift and 'securing any and all wobbly bits'.

The secret, they say, is in the 'strategic seams and stitching' that flatter the body in all the right places.

Backed by celebrities including TV personality Julia Morris, the slacks can be styled for both work and play and come in three colours: black, brown and ruby red.

A 'miracle pant' that was one of the most viral buys of the year in 2023 is set to return to shelves after receiving rave reviews from more than 10,000 customers

There are currently more than 35,000 people on the waitlist and 1,500 pre-sales for the drop, thanks to reviewers who labelled them, among other things, 'pure magic'.

'It instantly slims and sculpts, giving me the confidence to embrace my curves,' one wrote.

'This is the pant I've been waiting for. It's a wardrobe essential,' another added.

The original pants, which are on sale for $99 and selling out quickly, are made with extra soft, stretchy, faux leather that provides a soft, brushed feel on the inside.

The high-rise waistband smooths the stomach without 'squishing' you while plenty of stretch ensures the perfect fit for most body types.

The brand also offers a Miracle Skirt for $119.95 and Ponte Miracle Pants for $119.95.

Founded by mother and daughter Faye Browne and Lauren French, Motto Fashions was launched in a bid to help women feel more confident and empowered with their style

Crafted by Melbourne brand Motto , the smoothing leather-look Miracle Pant promises to 'instantly slim and sculpt' without taking away from the wearer's natural curves

Founded by mother and daughter Faye Browne and Lauren French, Motto Fashions was launched in a bid to help women feel more confident and empowered with their style.

Faye started her career as a buyer for one of the country's most successful retail chains before starting up Motto, while daughter, Lauren, previously worked for a high-end fashion agency and was recently a finalist in the Ausmumpreneur Awards.

They have grown a large and trusting fan-base who were attracted to their magnetic energy and passion for creating long-lasting, high quality pieces that aren't 'disposable'.

Backed by celebrities including TV personality Julia Morris, the slacks can be styled for both work and play and come in three colours: black, brown and ruby red

There are currently more than 35,000 people on the waitlist and 1,500 pre-sales for the drop, thanks to reviewers who labelled them, among other things, 'pure magic'

'You can be proud to own pieces that last. Our styles are exclusive, and we insist on longevity with our designs,' they say.

The pair also connects with shoppers at 1pm every day on Facebook and Instagram, where they chat for half-an-hour and engage in 'girl talk' and chat about life and fashion.

You can join the waitlist for the new Miracle Pant here and view the original Miracle Pant, here.