Heidi Klum showcased her long legs on Wednesday night, as she stepped out to celebrate Valentine's Day with her family at Madeo in Los Angeles.

The German supermodel, 50, beamed as she headed to dinner while hand-in-hand with her youngest daughter, Lou, 14.

Heidi donned a black miniskirt and fishnets for the occasion, while boosting her height with pointed high heels and accessorizing with sparkly earrings.

Getting into the romantic spirits, she also wore a white hoodie adorned with a gem-encrusted picture of her husband Tom Kaulitz's face.

While Lou showed she had inherited her mother's towering 5ft9in height, as she walked beside her in matching heels and a red satin dress.

Heidi Klum showcased her long legs on Wednesday night, as she stepped out to celebrate Valentine's Day with her family at Madeo in Los Angeles

The German supermodel, 50, beamed as she headed to dinner in a black miniskirt and fishnets while hand-in-hand with her youngest daughter, Lou, 14

Getting into the romantic spirits, she also wore a white hoodie adorned with a gem-encrusted picture of her husband Tom Kaulitz 's face

Heidi took to her Instagram Stories in the evening to share glimpses into her meal, filming the group indulging in glasses of champagne before tucking into a delicious mille-feuille dessert.

She also showed off her eye-catching jumper as she grinned with her brother-in-law Bill Kaulitz, who is Tom's identical twin brother and Tokio Hotel bandmate.

Heidi shares Lou, as well as sons Henry, 18, and Johan, 17, with her ex-husband Seal, 60, from whom she split from in 2012 after seven years of marriage.

She is also mother to Leni Olum Klum, 19, whose father is Italian businessman Flavio Briatore, 73.

She spoke previously to Today about raising a blended family, admitting that she had not planned for raising her kids with a stepfather.

She said: 'Obviously when you get married and you have children, you hope for that to last forever. When I said "yes" I meant yes forever. Unfortunately, that was not the case.'

However, Heidi went on to state that, despite going through divorce, she was dedicated to ensuring the well-being of her kids.

'You try to do your best to keep your children as happy as possible and keep them as grounded and loved most as possible,' she stated.

Heidi took to her Instagram Stories in the evening to share glimpses into her meal with her family members

She shared the group indulging in glasses of champagne before tucking into a delicious mille-feuille dessert

She also showed off her eye-catching jumper as she grinned with her brother-in-law Bill Kaulitz, who is Tom's identical twin brother and Tokio Hotel bandmate

She continued that she tried to maintain healthy relationships with every member of her blended family, saying: 'As long as everyone is happy, then I'm happy and we're all in good place.'

After her divorce from Seal, Heidi found love with fellow German, Tom, 34, and the pair tied the knot in 2019.

Last month, Heidi opened up about her lack of a type when it comes to dating, on the Call Her Daddy podcast.

She said: 'Look at my past. I don't have a type. I've been with someone bald, really old, long hair, skinny. Their personalities have also been very, very different.

'At the end of the day, you want someone who you feel comfortable with. Someone who makes you feel great and sees you and continues to see you.'

The star then dished on her 'endless, hot, wild' sex life with Tom - revealing the pair 'go for hours' in the bedroom and saying that all she has to do to get 'turned on' is 'look at my husband.'

Making another risqué revelation about her sexual past, she confessed: '[I've] had many different sausages [in my life]. But I ended up with a German one. The German sausages, what can I say!?'