I don't think it would be too much of an exaggeration to describe Anthony Joshua as nigh on bulletproof. Not in the Man of Steel/super hero sense, of course. Although he does look as if bullets might bounce off him. No, I mean more in him being pretty much universally appreciated by the British public.

Indeed, he seems as likeable and natural a sporting personality as we've had since Sir Mo Farah first pulled on his spikes and ran into the nation's front rooms. And like Mo, what's also important is that AJ not only appears to be a good guy. But that he's also good.

It's something that played out to such dramatic effect at Wembley Stadium in April, on that amazing evening under the lights. The build-up to which was captured wonderfully in the BBC documentary 'The Road To Klitschko'. A programme that arguably also helped to bring the young star as close to our hearts as it did the fight itself.

Anthony Joshua relives his win over Wladimir Klitschko in documentary 'The Fight Of My Life'

The world heavyweight champions speaks to rapper Dr Dre during one scene in the BBC show

Joshua comes across as good guy in the documentary, which airs on BBC One on Wednesday

ANTHONY JOSHUA: THE FIGHT OF MY LIFE Channel: BBC One When: Wednesday, October 18 Time: 10.45pm Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sport/boxing/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Now that incredible spectacle of pugilistic thrills and spills is being revisited by the same team that brought us that background to the build-up.

Giving the champion himself the chance to tell us the story of what happened next, in the process. In 'Anthony Joshua: The Fight Of My Life', on BBC One at 10.45pm on Wednesday.

And much like he did on the night, the young fighter does not disappoint. Once again, AJ is doing the business inside the ring. However this time, it is in decidedly less painful, powerful circumstances. Yet it still provides another engrossing conclusion.

Prior to this knockout finish, what 'The Fight Of My Life' does is throw combinations of previously seen footage, and behind -the-scenes access. Starting a couple of weeks prior with a heartwarming family surprise. And stopping as the fight is stopped in that incredible 11th round.

Showing us not only Joshua the boxer, talking a good game, putting bums on seats and getting the job done, but also Joshua the relative, the friend, the student and the colleague. Which in actual fact, and as becomes increasingly evident throughout, is pretty much the same fella.

Joshua became unified heavyweight world champion by beating Klitschko at Wembley in April

Klitschko put Joshua on the canvas for the first time in his career during the sixth round

Klitschko looked on course for victory before Joshua unleashed a hellish uppercut in the 11th

VIDEO WARNING: STRONG LANGUAGE

As he tells a reporter three days before the fight: 'No I don't want to be a legend. No way. You have to disconnect yourself.' And nothing that happens in the documentary suggests anything other than he is a man with his feet firmly on the ground.

Even when we see him raised up in the air in the build-up on the night, which he laughs 'would wind me up', as he reflects on what the Klitschko brothers must have been thinking as they watched on at the time.

But the retelling of the tale really comes to life when we once again see the two men step into the ring at Wembley. At which point AJ picks up the story of the fight from inside the ropes at his spiritual home of Finchley Boxing Club.

Here, this smart, self-effacing man vividly takes us back to that April evening. Shadow boxing his way through the drama with a blow by blow account of what unfolded.

Six months on from the Wembley showdown, the British fighter has relived the epic battle

Joshua recreates the punch of his career at his first amateur boxing club in Finchley

Joshua celebrates his victory alongside his coach Rob McCracken at Wembley in April

And again, just as on the night, you can't take your eyes off of it. As AJ swings away with his thoughts and emotions at the time, as the rounds rollercoaster by before us.

He brings his recollections to an end with a wonderful piece of understatement. AJ takes a breath, then tells us that in spite of being at the eye of that amazing storm, he can remember thinking 'that was a really good scrap, actually.'

Yes, champ, it was indeed not too shabby at all. And nor was this warm, candid and colourful revisiting of it. The sort of documentary that once again serves to remind us all that we really do seem to have a good 'un here.