Braith Anasta has been praised for putting his differences aside with his ex-wife Jodi Gordon as they attended their nine-year-old daughter Aleeia's baptism over the weekend.

The NRL star, 42, shared a gallery of photos to Instagram capturing the former couple posing alongside their daughter at the ceremony.

The proud parents were all-smiles and looked every inch the friendly exes for the milestone occasion.

Another picture showed a beaming Braith also posing with Aleeia and his younger daughter Gigi, six, whom he shares with his ex-fiancée Rachael Lee.

Braith captioned the gallery with some heartfelt words: 'She's got a beautiful soul with a heart of gold. She's a special one, this one.

Braith Anasta has been praised for putting his differences aside with his ex-wife Jodi Gordon as they attended their nine-year-old daughter Aleeia's baptism over the weekend

'Mum and dad are very proud of you. Congratulations on being baptised today gorgeous girl. I love you.'

Many of Braith's followers were quick to congratulate him for putting on a 'classy act' alongside the former Neighbours star, 39.

'The luckiest children are the ones that have two parents who can put their differences aside, stay amicable and share all the momentous occasions together,' one fan gushed.

The proud parents were all-smiles and look every inch the friendly exes for the milestone occasion and his other daughter Gigi, whom he shares with ex-fiancée Rachael Lee

'Great parenting! It's not hard to put personal feelings aside for the sake of your own kids happiness,' a second person added.

Braith and Jodi were married from 2012 to 2015 and welcomed Aleeia in 2014.

In August, Braith opened up about life without his Lee after the pair had a messy breakup in 2022.

Jodi looked stunning in a nude strapless dress

He revealed how 'excited' he is for this new chapter of his life.

Speaking with Foxtel Magazine for their September edition, he said he felt like he was 'in such a good place' and ready for anything that may come.

'If you're mentally and physically healthy, then you're going to be a better dad, a better partner, and you're going to give more to your family,' he said.