Jermain Defoe has reportedly jetted to the Dominican Republic for a make-or-break holiday with his girlfriend Alisha LeMay after their relationship was rocked by a cheating scandal.

Sources claim that despite vowing to give things another try, things are still 'tense' between the couple, with the footballer, 41, aware he has 'a lot of work to do' to win back the influencer's trust.

Pictures obtained by The Sun showed Jermain and Alisha, 31, preparing to jet off on their Caribbean getaway, in a bid to reignite their romance.

A source told the publication: 'To say things have been tense lately would be an understatement.

'Jermain knows he has a lot of work to do to make it up to Alisha but he has insisted he is committed to saving their relationship and has said he will do whatever it takes.

Jermain Defoe has reportedly jetted to the Dominican Republic for a make-or-break holiday with his girlfriend Alisha LeMay after their relationship was rocked by a cheating scandal

Sources claim that despite vowing to give things another try, things are still 'tense' between the couple, with the footballer aware he has 'a lot of work to do' to win back Alisha's trust

'He has been on the straight and narrow for the last few months since things went awry and hopes this trip will bring them closer together and prove his love for her.'

MailOnline has contacted a representative for Jermain Defoe for comment.

It comes after MailOnline revealed last month that Alisha decided to give Jermain a second chance, with the pair vowing to 'make a go of things' again in 2024 after he was spotted kissing another woman.

A source close to the player told MailOnline: 'Jermain and Alisha are back on and they spent Christmas and the New Year together and had an amazing time. Jermain was working a fair bit but spent as much time as he could with Alisha as well.

'Alisha knows people will raise their eyebrows at giving him a second chance, but she doesn't care.

'She's happy with Jermain and the pair have decided to try again and they really want to make a go of things this year.

'They've been working together on a New Year fitness regime and are driving each other on.

'As well as being a couple, they are great mates, and there's a sense among friends that they are just meant to be and that 2024 will be their year.'

It comes after MailOnline revealed last month that Alisha decided to give Jermain a second chance after he was pictured kissing another woman

Jermain and Alisha were first romantically linked last year, just weeks after he split from his wife Donna Tierney in January, just seven months after they tied the knot (Jermain and Donna pictured at wedding in June 2022)

The source added: 'Alisha is hugely popular among many of the WAGs on the football circuit. She's friends with many of them and they love her to bits.

'Everyone is hoping it works out and Alisha and Jermain can settle down and find happiness together.'

Jermain and Alisha were first romantically linked last year, just weeks after he split from his wife Donna Tierney in January, just seven months after they tied the knot.

The couple made their red carpet debut in October 2023 and then sparked engagement rumours, after Alisha was spotted wearing a giant diamond on her ring finger.

However, just days later Jermain was spotted kissing new flame and wedding planner Paige, 29.

After he was seen out with Paige several times Alisha took to Instagram to post a message to her fans hinting at 'everything happens for a reason' and 'finding better', which was later deleted.

The post read: 'Someday you'll realise that everything you've gone through was a blessing in disguise.

'Things didn't work out the way you expected them to because you were being prepared for something better, and all the restless nights wondering why everything happened to you will finally make sense.'

But it appears Alisha has now forgiven Jermain, and shared a story to her Instagram on Monday, discussing her 2024 goals.

She expressed her desire to slow down, lose herself more in the moment and to 'hold onto people tightly'.

Some reports have claimed that Jermain is now spending time with both his different love interests at two of his mansions.

He has been spotted with both women at his homes, with Alisha sharing a snap in his Hertfordshire home five days after he was photographed driving Paige to his Essex abode.

Alisha was said to have moved into his Hertfordshire home in May, while Paige was reported to have moved into his Essex home last month.

However, just days later after appearing at the Pride Of Britain Awards, Jermain was spotted kissing new flame and wedding planner Paige Mallabourn­-Edmondson, 29 (pictured)

But it appears Alisha has now forgiven Jermain, and shared a story to her Instagram discussing her 2024 goals

While Jermain has not spoken publicly on the situation, it's been claimed the former footballer has an 'unusual arrangement' ferrying himself between the two women.

A source told The Sun: 'Jermain likes to keep busy now he's retired but it must be exhausting going from one mansion to another to spend time with Paige and then Alisha.

'Maybe he's having a hard time trying to choose which one he wants to be with. Both must know about each other and seem to be very understanding towards Jermain.'

On November 9, Jermain was seen enjoying a dinner date with Paige at a pub close to his home in Essex before driving her back to his home there - the mansion that he lived in with his ex-wife Donna.

On November 14, Alisha revealed she was spending time at Jermain's Hertfordshire home as she snapped a selfie in his hallway.

MailOnline contacted Jermain's representatives for comment at the time.

Alisha previously shared a cryptic post in November 2023 about 'lies' and 'overthinking' after it was claimed she and Jermain had split.

She shared a snap to Instagram of a painting which read: 'Cheer up you're not dead yet. Hang on, let me overthink this. I won't tell if you don't.'

Some reports have claimed that Jermain is now spending time with both his different love interests at two of his mansions (pictured with Paige in November)

He has been spotted with both women at his homes, with Alisha sharing a snap in his Hertfordshire home five days after he was photographed driving Paige to his Essex abode

It comes following the breakdown of his marriage to Donna, 40, just months after their £200k wedding, with Donna claiming later that he cheated on her (pictured together in 2022)

It continued: 'It's not me, it's you. Everybody lies. Happiness is expensive. Rags to riches. If you ever leave me, I'm coming with you.'

Alisha and Jermain's relationship came following the breakdown of his marriage to Donna, 40, just months after their glitzy £200,000 OK! Magazine wedding in June 2022.

Jermain first became acquainted with the Scottish beauty therapist by 'liking' her pictures on social media.

They met in person for the first time in January 2021 at a charity do, where she asked him for a signed shirt.

Just seven months later he got down on one knee and proposed to her at a £2,500-a-night Glasgow hotel that was decked out with light up 'Marry Me' letters and rose petals.

The couple then married in a £200,000 ceremony at Cliveden House in June 2022, with some of the 250 guests including Tottenham assistant first team coach Ledley King and ex West Ham player turned TalkSport pundit Carlton Cole.

Just six months later, however, the couple had split, after Jermain had been spotted posting pictures of himself without his wedding ring and with no mention of his wife.

Donna claimed only a couple of months later that the footballer cheated on her after finding a love note sent to him .

In October 2022, Jermain reportedly messaged a nurse begging for sex just one month after the lavish wedding to his wife .

He was alleged to have messaged a woman via Instagram and invited her to join him in his Range Rover.

The Sun reported that the youth academy coach began contacting the 40-year-old mother in July, having just got married the month before - though Jermain denied any wrongdoing.