England have seldom been in this kind of situation - where the game is stretched out so early - under the leadership of Brendon McCullum and Ben Stokes.

Not that they will dwell long on the events of Saturday. In this particular England environment, the team chat is always about how you’re able to influence the next passage of play positively.

Naturally, when you're staring at a scoreboard that says your opponents are 322 runs ahead, two wickets down, you must react pretty quickly, but the only comparable game I can recall during this two-year period also came against India at Edgbaston.

They were 285 runs ahead with seven second-innings wickets intact, looking like they could stretch their lead to 500, which would have been game done.

But we managed to get Cheteshwar Pujara out and rolled them to set up a chase of 378 that ended in a famous seven-wicket win.

India closed day three of the Third test with a 322-run lead - as England collapsed in Rajkot

Joe Root got out attempting to reverse ramp Jasprit Bumrah, sparking an England collapse

It was a performance that encapsulated the team’s belief that the game is never done.

In the here and now, my thoughts have been with Ravichandran Ashwin regarding his family situation, and I offer warm congratulations to him for joining the 500 Club.

It’s a huge amount of Test match wickets and with the way cricket's going, it’s debatable how many more will join the nine of us who are already members.

With his absence, though, England knew India were not only a man down but without their best spinner and there was an opportunity when play began. One that slipped away.

There's been a lot of talk about why that happened, but the first thing I would say regarding Joe Root's dismissal is that no one will be more frustrated with it than Joe himself. Not that he will be annoyed by his thought process.

That reverse sweep to the seamers has bought him a decent amount of success and we can't clap and cheer when he flicks it for six in the Ashes and and then stomp our feet when he gets out doing the same thing.

To be honest, having played alongside him for so long, I prefer him dismissed like that than bowled, leaving it.

Equally, someone like Jonny Bairstow, out fourth ball LBW, will be thinking 'why didn't I play an aggressive shot?’

Because one thing we all know is that Baz McCullum would rather see people get out like Joe than Jonny: trying to put some some emphasis back onto the opposition bowling unit.

Yashasvi Jaiswal hit a century as India build a commanding lead over England in the third Test

England's bowlers were ground into the Rajkot dust again as Jaiswal batted superbly

Ravichandran Ashwin pulled out of the third Test after reaching 500 Test wickets

To give you a sense of the mindset inside that England changing room, I recall Jack Leach getting out first ball in Pakistan reverse sweeping. It was horrible. Awful. Bowled. Got nowhere near it.

Later, as he sat waiting to bat on a king pair, Baz said to him: reverse sweep first ball, please, Leachy.

Why? Simple. He’d failed his first challenge by not executing the stroke properly, but the second innings offered the chance to get it right.

McCullum’s most recognisable phrase as a coach is 'run towards the danger,' so he won't be expecting Joe Root to step back from taking those sorts of options. Not at all.

Don’t get me wrong. As a cricket fan, I fully get the 'Joe's too good to do that,' argument but actually the power he carries as the leading influence amongst the batters in that changing room should not be under-estimated. Him playing in that style frees everyone else up.

If Joe can get out like that, and isn't worried about mistakes, then Ben Duckett and Zak Crawley can play without fear too and there will be no repercussions.

Everyone has enjoyed watching them, I am sure, and as I say, the number of times matches that have got away from England playing this way can be counted on one finger rather than one hand.