Sophie Ellis-Bextor was joined by husband Richard Jones at the British Vogue and Tiffany & Co BAFTAs 2024 afterparty at Annabel's in London on Sunday night.

The pop singer, 44, who's Noughties hit Murder On The Dancefloor featured in smash hit Saltburn, performed the track at the ceremony earlier in the evening.

Sophie put on a very leggy display arrived at the afterparty in a sequinned green mini dress with dramatic fringed sleeves.

She completed the look with a pair of sparking silver heels and accentuated her gorgeous feature eye-catching make-up.

Meanwhile Richard, 44, who shares five sons with his wife, cut a dapper figure in a tailored black suit.

Sophie Ellis-Bextor, 44, was joined by husband Richard Jones, 44, at the British Vogue and Tiffany & Co BAFTAs 2024 afterparty at Annabel's in London on Sunday night

The pop singer put on a very leggy display arrived in a sequinned green mini dress with dramatic fringed sleeves

It came after Sophie took to the stage during the ceremony at London's Royal Festival Hall and wowed in a black and orange puffball gown.

The star's look boasted a black netted skirt with an orange overlay, and a plunging corset top.

Finishing her look with gold sparkly heels, she slicked back her brunette tresses into a sleek ponytail.

Sophie's song featured in Saltburn's viral closing moments, which saw Barry Keoghan's character dance naked around the Saltburn mansion.

Speaking ahead of the ceremony, Sophie admitted that recreating Barry's naked dance 'may be a bit much' for the awards.

When asked about Keoghan re-doing it, Ellis-Bextor told the PA news agency on the red carpet: 'It might be a bit much for him first thing but we have had a moment together already...

'I was lucky enough to meet all the Saltburn cast back in November in LA at the premiere, so it'd be nice to see them again because I think what they've achieved with the film is wonderful so I just want to toast that.'

She also said that she 'felt very complimented' by director Emerald Fennell choosing her 2001 song for the film.

It came after Sophie took to the stage during the ceremony at London's Royal Festival Hall and wowed in a black and orange puffball gown

The star's look boasted a black netted skirt with an orange overlay, and a plunging corset top

Speaking ahead of the ceremony, Sophie admitted that recreating Barry's naked dance 'may be a bit much' for the awards

THE BAFTA WINNERS AT A GLANCE Best Film - Oppenheimer Best Director - Christopher Nolan, Oppenheimer Supporting Actor - Robert Downey Jr, Oppenheimer Leading Actor - Cillian Murphy, Oppenheimer Leading Actress - Emma Stone, Poor Things Supporting Actress - Da'vine Joy Randolph, The Holdovers Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Meanwhile, Saltburn star Richard E Grant joked the cast would strip during Sophie's performance.

He said on the red carpet: 'None of us are keeping our clothes on.

'If you look at where our group is going to be tonight, we've prearranged the whole choreographed thing. I've said during tonight we're taking them all off again… I think it's called The Windmill (dance.)'

Richard added about his role in the film as an aristocratic dad who ends up devastated when his son dies: 'I was so grateful to be offered a part, and that I got to keep my clothes on.'

He said about the reaction to the shock bath, grave and nude scenes in 'Saltburn': 'A fair number of grandmothers have written to complain that they were told to watch this film for Christmas and their false teeth fell out.

'(But) it's the way to go. Emerald has a skewed dark sense of humour, and I knew that, and I've known her since she was 13. The darkness and the way she dealt with sexual obsession – it was amazing.

She had already hit the red carpet in a sheer black gown, covered in individual petals on the sleeves and hem

Underneath, she donned a nude bodysuit encrusted in diamonds, leaving her long legs bare and on display

'She was a bold storyteller (aged 13) and has written ever since. She could write.'

Oppenheimer won Best Film as well as sweeping the board in the major categories during the swanky ceremony.

The epic biographical thriller led the wins with seven gongs, including Best Actor for Cillian Murphy, Best Supporting Actor for Robert Downey Jr and Best Director for Christopher Nolan. It had the most nominations with 13.

The biggest night in British film returned with actor David Tennant as host and an array of guest presenters on hand to deliver awards throughout the night.

Murphy, 47 - who plays the titular role in Nolan's atomic bomb saga - picked up the prize at the prestigious British awards ceremony.

He triumphed against Bradley Cooper for Maestro, Colman Domingo for Rustin, Paul Giamatti for The Holdovers, Barry Keoghan for Saltburn and Teo Yoo for Past Lives.