They claim the 'Frankenfood' is affordable, tasty and environmentally friendly

Scientists have grown meat cells inside rice to create an all-in-one ready meal

From casseroles to curries, many of the most popular ready meals include rice and beef.

Now, scientists in Korea have managed to grow meat cells inside grains of rice to create an all-in-one ready meal.

They claim the horrifying pinkish 'Frankenfood' is affordable, tasty and environmentally friendly.

Sohyeon Park, of Yonsei University, South Korea, said: 'Imagine obtaining all the nutrients we need from cell-cultured protein rice. Rice already has a high nutrient level, but adding cells from livestock can further boost it.

'We usually obtain the protein we need from meat, but meat production consumes a lot of resources and water and releases a lot of greenhouse gas.'

From casseroles to curries, many of the most popular ready meals include rice and beef. Now, scientists in Korea have managed to grow meat cells inside grains of rice to create an all-in-one ready meal

To create the Frankenfood, the team first coated rice with fish gelatin - a safe and edible ingredient that helps cells latch onto the rice better. Cow muscle and fat stem cells were then seeded into the rice and left to culture in a petri dish for nine to 11 days

Cultured beef is usually grown from cow cells inserted into a 'biological scaffolding' made from gelatin or collagen, which allows it to resemble actual cuts of meat.

Previous studies have shown it is possible to create products in a lab that look roughly like real steaks and burgers.

In this case, the scientists discovered that porous rice grains, which are full of 'nooks and crannies', provided the perfect natural scaffolding to grow beef cells.

To create the Frankenfood, the team first coated rice with fish gelatin - a safe and edible ingredient that helps cells latch onto the rice better.

Cow muscle and fat stem cells were then seeded into the rice and left to culture in a petri dish for nine to 11 days.

The researchers say the end product is mushy pink rice with a firm bite and a creamy, beefy taste with hints of almond and coconut oil.

Ms Park said: 'I didn't expect the cells to grow so well in the rice.

'Now I see a world of possibilities for this grain-based hybrid food.

The researchers say the end product is mushy pink rice with a firm bite and a creamy, beefy taste with hints of almond and coconut oil

'It could one day serve as food relief for famine, military ration, or even space food.'

For every 100g of protein produced, the hybrid rice releases less than 6.27kg of CO2, while beef releases 49.89kg.

The hybrid rice could cost around £1.50 per kilo, while beef costs £15.

The global livestock industry is responsible for more than 14 per cent of man-made greenhouse gas emissions, nearly as much as road transport, aviation and shipping combined.

Prof Neil Ward, of UK Research and Innovation, described the study as 'promising'.

He said: 'While data on cost and climate impact look very positive, a critical test is around public appetite for these sorts of lab-developed foods.'

Lab-grown meat products cannot yet be sold legally in the UK.

Last year, Israeli firm Aleph Farms became the first to apply to the Food Standards Agency for permission to sell cultivated beef steak. A decision has not yet been made.