If seeing the Northern Lights isn’t on your bucket list, it should be.

We believe that everyone should aim to see this incredible phenomenon at least once in their lifetime — the beautiful colours, the clear sky and the dancing waves they make are a true example of our planet’s greatest wonders.

But before you start researching your trip, check out what our travel gurus have to say about the matter, including when the best timeto see the Northern Lights is, as well as the top destinations to enjoy them from.

Read more: The best family holiday destinations of 2023

Top destinations to see the Northern Lights

What are the Northern Lights?

‘The Northern Lights, or aurora borealis, are a spectacular atmospheric phenomenon with waves of blue, green, purple, and red lights across the sky that many travellers seek to find,’ says Mercedes Zach, travel agent at the International Travel Network and travel expert at ASAP Tickets.

And the best circumstances to find the Lights?

As Zach tells Best Buys, ‘They occur most often in any area within approximately 1,500 miles of the poles of both the northern and southern hemisphere, and are easily viewed when skies are dark, clear and free from cloud cover and light pollution.’

Photo: Pexels / Tobias Bjørkli

Where is best to see the Northern Lights?

‘The aurora borealis can be found in a few different Northern European countries including the Scandinavian nations and Iceland,’ says Andras Rado, Corporate Communications Manager at travel agent WizzAir.

To make it easy, we’ve listed some such locations below.

Norway

The best location to see the Northern Lights according to Rado are Scandinavian countries, particularly Tromsø in Norway.

‘Tromsø is located in the heart of the Aurora zone, therefore offering the best views of the Northern Lights. As a result, many travellers decide to stay here when they particularly want to experience the phenomenon,’ he says.

Book a Tromsø Northern Lights tour here

Aside from Tromsø, Rado recommends Rovaniemi in Lapland and the Norwegian city of Svalbard.

‘These Scandinavian cities are situated within the Aurora zone, allowing tourists to experience the Northern Lights in all their beauty. These remote areas also have less light pollution than more urban tourist hotspots, allowing visitors to see the lights with ease.’

Iceland

Ivan Saprov, founder and CEO of travel management platform Voyagu, says that Iceland is the number one destination to see the Northern Lights.

‘Not only does IcelandAir offer convenient flights to major cities, and a flight time of just three hours from London, but the country boasts an array of other unique phenomena, such as geysers, the Kerid Crater and the Gullfoss Waterfall, which are all commonly found in Golden Circle Tours. This can be fantastic at elevating your trip to Iceland further.’

Saprov recommends visiting the country from October to December, with the peak viewing time in November. This is due to the nights being longer, and the chances of seeing the Lights higher.

Finland

Travel expert Mercedes Zach says that her number one destination suggestion for seeing the Northern Lights is Finnish Lapland in the north of the Arctic Circle.

And the expert’s favourite accommodation recommendation?

‘It has to be Kakslauttanen Arctic Resort, which is a cosy lodge with a romantic sauna and glass igloos to admire the aurora borealis from. Plus, the resort also organises Northern Lights trips for those who prefer some more action and want to catch the lights while skiing or riding a reindeer sleigh,’ she says.

‘As the Northern Lights appear over Finland for approximately 200 nights a year, I feel that Finland and this magical resort are a must-visit destination for a magical holiday.’

Sounds pretty great to us!

What is the best month to visit the Northern Lights?

‘The best time of year to experience the Northern Lights is throughout the Aurora season, which begins around the end of August and continues through to mid-April, giving travellers plenty of time to see the arctic lights,’ comments Rado.

However, there’s a “but.”

The Northern Lights can sometimes only produce a faint glow, and other times they can produce the vibrant magical colours they’re renowned for, so the correct viewing conditions are a must.

‘To have the best chance of spotting the natural light display, consider avoiding the summer months, as during this time there are extremely long days with lots of sunlight that makes it much harder to see them,’ advises Zach.

Thus opting for a time at the height of winter — like November, as per Saprov’s recommendation — is your best bet.

Photo: Pexels / Stein Egil Liland

When is the best time of day to see the Northern Lights?

Although seeing the Northern Lights is sadly never guaranteed, Zach says that the darker it is outside, the better your chances of seeing the lights.

‘I would suggest planning your viewing from 10pm to 2am in the key hours of darkness, and try to stay patient, as the Northern Lights typically occur in short bursts of 15 to 30 minutes. Staying up that late will, however, pay off once you see this phenomenon for yourself.’

Zach’s final tip?

‘I'd say that the best way to increase your chances of viewing them is to plan a longer trip if you can. The more nights that you’re there, the higher your chance of seeing the Northern Lights.’

Photo: Pexels / Tobias Bjørkli

Ready to book your trip?

So we’ve covered where you can see the Northern Lights (Norway, Finland and Iceland are our experts’ recommended destinations).

We’ve uncovered the best time of year to see them (around November — and make sure not to go in the summer, as the long hours of daylight decrease your chances).

We’ve also revealed the best time of day to see them — 10pm to 2am, when it’s darkest.

Now that you’re armed with this information, what are you waiting for?

Book the above recommendations and check out further Northern Lights holiday deals below — we’ll keep our fingers crossed that you see this incredible phenomenon!

Photo: Pexels / SUOMI PHOTOGRAPHY

Meet the experts

Mercedes Zach is a travel agent at the International Travel Network and travel expert at ASAP Tickets with over seven years’ experience in the travel industry. She is a passionate traveller and loves to find great holiday deals and recommendations and sharing insights on upcoming travel trends.

Andras Rado is Corporate Communications Manager at travel agent WizzAir. Having worked at several multinational companies, he has travelled around the world and explored numerous countries and cultures. The Northern Lights is one of his favourite natural wonders and he is planning to return to Tromsø soon to experience this spectacular phenomenon once again.

Ivan Saprov is founder and CEO of Voyagu, a US-based travel tech company that connects travellers with travel advisors for booking and trip management. He has over 10 years’ experience in the travel industry.

Did you like this article? For more great deals and shopping ideas, find us now on your favourite social networks: Facebook, Instagram and Pinterest!

Prices updated on 17/10/2023. We are not responsible for any changes to the prices mentioned above.