Taylor Swift landed in Sydney on Monday ahead of her weekend shows in the harbour city.

And the lavish digs the pop megastar, 34, is believed to be staying at while in town can now be revealed as Crown's presidential villa in Sydney's Barangaroo.

The Cruel Summer songstress stayed in the presidential villa at the five-star Crown Towers hotel while in Melbourne.

Crown Sydney's presidential villa is situated on the 88th floor of Crown Towers Sydney and typically costs $25,000 per night.

The 800sqm residence is split over two levels and boasts unparalleled views over the Sydney harbour.

Taylor Swift landed in Sydney on Monday ahead of her weekend shows in the harbour city. Pictured: Swift

The first floor features an expansive living area, kitchen, bar, pool table, and a media room for entertaining.

A dining room comfortably hosts up to 10 people and there is also a fully equipped office and butler's quarters.

Meanwhile, the second floor includes a spectacular master bedroom features a spacious bathroom complete with a marble spa bath and steam shower.

And the lavish digs the pop megastar, 34, is believed to be staying at while in town can now be revealed as Crown's presidential villa in Sydney's Barangaroo. Pictured

Crown Sydney's presidential villa is situated on the 88th floor of Crown Towers Sydney and typically costs $25,000 per night

A second king-size bedroom features a deluxe ensuite, with the luxury extending to the fitness room complete with infrared sauna.

An open-air terrace comes with a heated, private infinity pool.

Swift landed just in Sydney at about 1.30pm after her flight was delayed 30 minutes due to the severe thunderstorms.

The second floor includes a spectacular master bedroom features a spacious bathroom complete with a marble spa bath and steam shower

The first floor features an expansive living area, kitchen, bar, pool table, and a media room for entertaining

A group of fans braved the wild weather to greet Swift as her plane landed, hoping to catch a glimpse of the star as she disembarked.

While Australians have seen the likes of Kourtney Kardashian, Travis Barker and Pink! out and about in public in recent weeks before Monday's sighting Swift has managed to completely evade the spotlight while Down Under.

But while she is visiting the harbour city, it is unlikely fans will see Swift out and about.

Between her tour legs, Taylor has 'dead days'.

The 800sqm residence is split over two levels and boasts unparalleled views over the Sydney harbour

While she is visiting the harbour city, it is unlikely fans will see Swift out and about

'I do not leave my bed except to get food and take it back to my bed and eat it there,' she Time magazine last year.

'It's a dream scenario. I can barely speak because I've been singing for three shows straight. Every time I take a step my feet go crunch, crunch, crunch from dancing in heels. But it’s the most fulfilled I’ve ever felt.'

Meanwhile, rumours are also heating up that her beau Kelce will be travelling to Australia to join his girlfriend and the couple may enjoy a romantic holiday together in Queensland this week.

Swift mania will soon hit Sydney with the pop star set to perform four shows from Friday, February 23 to Monday February 26.