THE STORY SO FAR REPORTERS 8-5 COLUMNISTS Last week, our athletics correspondent Martha Kelner beat columnist Chris Sutton 8-6 to extend the reporters' overall lead. How it works: 3 points for a correct score, 1 point for the right result. Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sport/football/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Welcome to The Prediction Challenge.

It's what millions of us do every day - predicting what the score will be in a Premier League match.

Whether it's a thumping 4-0 home win, a sneaky three points on the road or a 0-0 bore draw, let's be honest – we all think we can tip the outcome of the next game.

Well, now we've challenged Sportsmail's experts to test their prediction power.

Each week, we'll ask one of our star columnists to go head to head with one of our top team of reporters.

They will offer their prediction for each Premier League match - and explain why they went for that score.

This week, it's our columnist Martin Keown against reporter Jack Gaughan ... and don't forget to tell us your predictions by leaving a comment below.

Sportsmail's columnist Martin Keown (left) takes on our reporter Jack Gaughan this week

All matches on Sunday at 3pm

ARSENAL vs EVERTON

Martin Keown: Arsenal will sign off on a positive note ahead of the Cup final. Everton have made big improvements this season but Arsenal will be too good. Arsenal 2-0 Everton.

Jack Gaughan: Surely the Gunners are going to put on a show? You’d hope so after the season they’ve endured and with a slim chance of reaching the Champions League. They need results to go there way. Arsenal 2-1 Everton.

BURNLEY vs WEST HAM

Martin Keown: A very disappointing season for West Ham will end with defeat at Burnley, who will continue their good home form. Burnley 1-0 West Ham.

Jack Gaughan: West Ham were on the beach last week against Liverpool and Burnley will want to finish their home campaign with yet another win. Burnley 2-1 West Ham.

CHELSEA vs SUNDERLAND

Martin Keown: Chelsea can create history by winning their 30th Premier League game of the season. With the prospect of a Double on the horizon Chelsea will want to get the job done early. Conte will use his squad wisely ahead of the Cup final. Chelsea 3-0 Sunderland.

Jack Gaughan: A big finale, Antonio Conte hopes. Goals to be had against a wretched Sunderland side - this should be exceptionally one-sided. Chelsea 4-0 Sunderland.

Chelsea are getting ready to party as they lift the Premier League trophy on Sunday

HULL CITY vs TOTTENHAM HOTSPUR

Martin Keown: Who would bet against Harry Kane scoring another hat-trick? Tottenham have shown they are stronger mentally and Kane chasing a personal milestone has made life easier for them. Hull 0-3 Tottenham.

Jack Gaughan: Spurs are still relentless despite sewing up second spot already and showed that against Leicester on Thursday night. Same again here. Hull 0-3 Tottenham.

Harry Kane will be looking to secure the Golden Boot when Spurs finish their season at Hull

LEICESTER CITY vs BOURNEMOUTH

Martin Keown: The 6-1 defeat by Spurs will have been a smack in the face for Craig Shakespeare. Another loss would harm his job prospects and this will really test his relationship with the players. Leicester 2-1 Bournemouth.

Jack Gaughan: Craig Shakespeare will be hurt by Thursday and want a reaction, while Bournemouth are hoping to cling on to their top 10 finish. Leicester 1-1 Bournemouth.

LIVERPOOL vs MIDDLESBROUGH

Martin Keown: I cannot see anything other than a Liverpool win. If they can't beat Boro then they don't deserve to be in the Champions League. Liverpool 3-1 Middlesbrough.

Jack Gaughan: Could it be nervy? Liverpool fans are hoping not, needing one final win to make sure they’re back in the Champions League. Liverpool 2-0 Middlesbrough.

Philippe Coutinho and Liverpool are hoping to secure a Champions League spot

MANCHESTER UNITED vs CRYSTAL PALACE

Martin Keown: Palace will have their party hats on and can finally enjoy a Premier League game after playing under such pressure. United won't want to lose heading into the Europa League final... so I can see them equalling their record of 11 draws at home! Man United 1-1 Crystal Palace.

Jack Gaughan: A game Jose Mourinho would rather do without. A second string again, a second rate performance again. Man United 1-1 Crystal Palace.

SOUTHAMPTON vs STOKE CITY

Martin Keown: Southampton are without a goal in four games and that run will extend against a Stoke side who don't do a lot away from home. Southampton 0-0 Stoke.

Jack Gaughan: Tough to call. Claude Puel looks on the way out whereas Stoke have faltered badly and could finish as low as 16th. Southampton 0-1 Stoke.

SWANSEA CITY vs WEST BROM

Martin Keown: West Brom's season has tailed off. I expect Swansea to win a tight game. Swansea 2-1 West Brom.

Jack Gaughan: West Brom have struggled for results recently and Tony Pulis could look to grind out a draw to make sure they stay in the top half. Swansea 0-0 West Brom.

WATFORD 0-3 MANCHESTER CITY

Martin Keown: The wheels have well and truly come off at Watford, losing each of their last five games. A comfortable Manchester City win. Watford 0-3 Manchester City.

Jack Gaughan: City only need a draw but they will hunt for goals. Watford are all over the place, with Walter Mazzarri leaving. Watford 1-3 Manchester City.