Eden Hazard admits he used to always come back for pre-season overweight

Eden Hazard has opened up on his weight problems as a footballer during a new podcast episode with former Chelsea team-mate John Obi Mikel.

Appearing on an episode of Mikel's Obi One podcast, Belgian winger Hazard, 33, revealed some of the problems he had with his weight and fitness after his £100million move from Chelsea to Real Madrid in 2019.

Hazard retired from the game in October after playing just 76 times in four seasons for Madrid following struggles with fitness and form and admitted that he decided to walk away because he 'wasn't having fun on the pitch' anymore following his release by the club.

He bluntly responded to the stories which circulated shortly after he signed for the Spanish giants, which stated he had turned up for pre-season out of shape.

'It was true,' Hazard said while speaking on the Obi One Podcast. 'But me, every summer I was putting on four or five kilos because I was thinking you give so much for 10 months, you put your body at the highest level and people kick you, so your time off is your time off.

Former winger Eden Hazard admits he used to return for pre-season overweight every year

After he joined Real Madrid, stories circulated that he was always out of shape in pre-season

Hazard admitted that he enjoys food and beers and did not turn it down when spending time with family and friends

Hazard made the revelations in a new podcast episode hosted by John Obi Mikel (left)

Your browser does not support iframes.

'Don’t ask me to do anything. I enjoy being with my family, going to the beach, so don’t ask me to run in those three or four weeks. I can play football on the beach with my kids, no problem, but don’t ask me to run.

'But if you look throughout my career, the first month [of the season] is the bit where I was thinking it’s just the beginning, and then from September and October I was flying, because I needed time to put my body and mind in the best way.

'So yes, it’s true, I came back after holidays with five kilos, I knew it.

'I love everything with family and friends. If you ask me to eat something I'm going to eat. Even if I don't like it I'm going to eat!

'As a Belgian guy, we love beers because my country has the best beers in the world, so I’m not telling you I used to drink every day because it’s not true, but sometimes after a good game, one or two is nice.'

Despite admitting he arrived at the Spanish giants overweight, Hazard insisted he could not have done much more to improve his time at the club, and opened up on why things really went so badly wrong right from the start.

Hazard revealed that he did rehab on his own during Covid after having ankle surgery

Hazard (right) insisted he pushed himself to get back to his best condition but had major issues after returning to training following Covid

Hazard ended up playing just 76 times for Real Madrid across four years before retiring in 2023

Hazard told Zinedine Zidane (left) that he need to do more rehab at the end of his first season at Madrid, gut only struggled with more injuries after that

When asked if he could have done things differently to hit the ground running at Madrid, Hazard replied: 'I don't think so. I think I was a bit unlucky with that period with Covid, because if you want to know the real story, I went to Dallas to do the surgery on my ankle then I came back to Madrid and it was Covid.

'I had two to two-and-a-half months of Covid, me at home alone, no physio to do the rehab. I did my rehab alone. If I had to choose one thing to change I should have said to the doctor "bring a physio, I need a good rehab". I have to do [it] because I want to play at the highest level.

'And then when the Covid finished, we came back on the pitch, I pushed my body like crazy but my ankle was not the same and then I break everything the season after and then you know the story.

'If you want me to change one thing it's call the physio "come home, I know it's Covid but please come home, I need rehab". And things could be different at that time.'

Hazard was pushed further on whether Madrid could have given him more help with his recovery, but defended his former club.

'At that time people were not allowed to on the street or to go to their job, and I didn't push the physio or the doctor to "oh come on, I need someone". For me, my rehab I did a few exercises, a few things alone. For me it was enough, I didn't think that I had to do more.

'At the beginning, I didn't think I needed to do more. After two months I think "oh yeah, I should do more", but at the beginning I was OK, I did my thing, I go outside running a bit, I do some exercise and it was not that bad, but then I cam back on the pitch and I felt it.'

Reflecting on whether he immediately knew after his return to action that he was in trouble, Hazard admitted: 'Yeah, yeah, yeah. After that period with Covid we came back on the pitch and we had like two months to play until the end of the season.

'And we were that close to being champions so I was saying to Zidane "I want to push, I want to go" and then the day we finished champions I said "no, I can't do any more, I'm finished". My body is suffering a lot so I need to do a proper rehab, but it was already the end of the season.'

Hazard's years of success at Chelsea saw the Blues win two Premier Leagues and one FA Cup

On the podcast, he also opened up on the coach that he didn't like working under at Chelsea

Hazard's seven years of success at Chelsea saw the Blues win two Premier League titles, one FA Cup, two League Cups and two Europa League trophies.

Elsewhere on the podcast, released on Monday morning, the Belgian spoke about his international team-mate Kevin De Bruyne, Chelsea's current challenges under Mauricio Pochettino, and the way Jude Bellingham had handled himself since arriving at Real Madrid.

Hazard also revealed the one coach that was able to get the best out of him, and singled out one manager he struggled to work with at Chelsea.

He also had an unexpected former Blues name as his pick for the most talented footballer he had ever worked with 'by far'.

Eden Hazard was speaking on the Obi One Podcast.