Home Improvement star Zachery Ty Bryan was arrested for a DUI in California on Saturday, just months after he served seven days in jail and was sentenced to 36 months of supervised probation for assaulting his ex-girlfriend.

The actor, who played one of Tim Allen's sons on the blockbuster ABC sitcom from 1991 to 1999, has spent the last several years in legal trouble related to domestic violence.

Bryan's latest alleged domestic violence incident came just a month after he claimed that his previous arrest in 2020 was a 'wake-up call' as he tries to rebuild his life.

A spokesperson for the Riverside County Sheriff's Office said that at 2:36am Saturday, Bryan faced a traffic stop from deputies with the La Quinta Police Department after his vehicle was suspected of being involved in a recent traffic accident.

He showed 'indications of impairment' when police interviewed him and he was arrested for driving under the influence, having committed prior offenses.

Bryan, 42, was booked into John Benoit Detention Center at around 5am Saturday. He posted $50,000 in bail later that date, according to county prison records.

Home Improvement star Zachery Ty Bryan was arrested for a DUI in California on Saturday, just months after he served seven days in jail and was sentenced to 36 months of supervised probation for assaulting his ex-girlfriend. He is pictured in October 2023

His next court date is scheduled for April 23.

In October, the actor plead guilty to felony assault in the fourth degree constituting domestic violence in an Oregon court.

As part of a negotiated resolution, according to The Hollywood Reporter, a second count was dismissed, and rather than him spending '19 to 20 months' in Oregon Department of Corrections, he received a 'downward dispositional departure' to three years of supervised probation and just a week in jail.

Bryan was also forced to 'abide by a set of conditions typical of domestic violence cases' that include 'no contact with the victim without the probation officer's approval, alcohol and substance abuse treatment, and no alcohol and drug use moving forward.'

'Mr. Bryan decided to accept this resolution and admit that he recklessly caused physical injury to his domestic partner to avoid further trauma to his family so they could move on and heal,' Lane County's Chief Deputy District Attorney Chris Parosa said in a statement at the time.

If he violates any conditions of his parole, the actor will have to serve '19 to 20 months of prison time that the court suspended under the deal.'

While speaking about his client's guilty plea, Bryan's lawyer told The Wrap: 'He believes this is the manner he could best resolve this to avoid further trauma to his family.'

Last summer, he was arrested for fourth-degree felony assault in Eugene, Oregon for getting physical with a woman, who was not named by authorities.

Bryan's latest alleged domestic violence incident came just a month after he claimed that his previous arrest in 2020 was a 'wake-up call' as he tries to rebuild his life. Pictured: Bryan posing for a mugshot in October 2020

Glory days: Bryan had rose to national fame in the 1990s as the eldest child on Home Improvement, which also starred Tim Allen and future teen heartthrob Jonathan Taylor Thomas

Bryan was charged with a pair of felonies and a misdemeanor in connection with the July incident: assault, robbery and harassment.

In October of 2020, Bryan was arrested on accusations he assaulted and strangled his fiancée Johnnie Faye Cartwright, and in February 2021, he entered guilty pleas to two misdemeanor domestic violence charges in connection with the incident.

Cartwright, who got engaged to the actor in November of 2021, shares three young children with him: one-year-old daughter Kennedy, and five-month-old twins Parker and Sequoia.

She told US Weekly in a statement in August: 'I ask everyone to please be respectful of our privacy for the sake of the children and our families so the healing process can begin.'

'I'll always want what's best for the father of my children,' Cartwright told the publication of Bryan, adding that 'trauma can bring struggles in many shapes and forms,' while giving her take on the reporting of the recent incident.

'It's a horrible situation that's going to be spun in so many ways,' she said. 'I've learned firsthand the truth will never align with what's been put out there.'

The latest charge appears to indicate that he is accused of attacking someone who had previously obtained a domestic violence restraining order, though the alleged victim has not yet been named.

Members of the Eugene Police Department told TMZ that police received a call about a physical altercation between and man and a woman at a local residence.

'Mr. Bryan decided to accept this resolution and admit that he recklessly caused physical injury to his domestic partner to avoid further trauma to his family so they could move on and heal,' Lane County's Chief Deputy District Attorney Chris Parosa told THR in a statement (seen in 2016)

Trying to stay afloat: After the show ended in 1999, Bryan turned to film roles and earned guest spots on television shows. He is pictured here on Home Improvement with Tim Allen

However, once officers responded to the scene Bryan was nowhere to be found.

They reportedly were able to track him down, though, and he was transported to the jail and booked on the felony assault charge.

It remains unclear if his fiancée Cartwright, who was the target of his 2020 attack, was also the victim of the recent alleged altercation.

The former child star claimed in an interview with The Hollywood Reporter that the physical altercation in October of that year started because his girlfriend at the time, Johnnie Faye Cartwright, was upset he was 'living a double life' and was still married — even though he had announced his divorce two weeks earlier.

He later plead guilty to two misdemeanor counts of menacing and assault in the fourth degree and was sentenced to a three-year probation and attendance in a violence intervention program, and was ordered to have no further contact with the victim.

Bryan said at the time he now tries to stay away from alcohol, and he and Cartwright were still together and were now raising their children.

He rose to national fame in the 1990s as the eldest child on Home Improvement, which also starred Tim Allen and future teen heartthrob Jonathan Taylor Thomas.

After the show ended in 1999, Bryan turned to film roles and earned guest spots on television shows like Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Boston Public and Veronica Mars.

More trouble: Bryan continues to face scrutiny for his role selling tokens for an ag-tech company that never materialized; seen in 2016 with his ex-wife Carly Matros

Rightward turn: In recent years, he has become a conservative commentator on FOX News and The Daily Wire

He then became an executive producer on independent films, and married his high school sweetheart Carly Matros in 2007.

They would go on to have four children that they raised together in a multi-million dollar home in Newport Beach, California. The youngest, a son, was born in March 2019, joining three daughters — including a set of twins.

In more recent years, Bryan has made a name for himself as a conservative commentator on platforms like FOX News and The Daily Wire.

In September 2020, Bryan announced he and Matros were getting a divorce — and in a ridiculous twist he appeared to have plagiarized Armie Hammer's divorce announcement almost word for word.

He now admits to The Hollywood Reporter: 'I was just in party freaking mode — making movies, traveling, drinking. I wasn't living the way I was raised, you know what I mean?

'I was not being a faithful husband, and I was not being the best me,' he continued. 'I thought I would be able to go out and do whatever I wanted, have fun, come home and be a family man with my kids. That's not how the real world works.'

Just 16 days after the divorce announcement, in October of 2020, Bryan was arrested in Oregon and charged with felony strangulation, fourth-degree assault, coercion, menacing, harassment and interference with making a police report.

The most serious charges, including felony strangulation, were later dropped and he pleaded guilty to two misdemeanors.

Bryan rose to national fame in the 1990s as the eldest child on Home Improvement, which also starred Tim Allen and future teen heartthrob Jonathan Taylor Thomas

Bryan married his high school sweetheart Carly Matros in 2007. They divorced in 2020

He was also ordered by the court not to 'buy, possess or consume alcoholic beverages' or be in any place that sells or serves alcohol as its primary purpose.

It was his second arrest of 2020, after being booked for DUI that May. He plead guilty in that case as well, and was sentenced to five years probation and 18 months in a multiple-offender alcohol program due to a record of other DUI arrests in 2004, 2007 and 2017.

According to Oregon police records obtained by The Hollywood Reporter, Cartwright claimed that on the night of the alleged assault, Bryan, with whom she had been in a 'sexually intimate' relationship for two years, woke her up demanding to know what happened to his cellphone charging cables.

She alleged that he 'pulled her hair' and punched her in the face multiple times.

The two then fell on a set of stairs, at which point, the police report says, Bryan 'grabbed Cartwright's neck with both hands and choked her' for about 45 seconds.

Responding officers said they saw multiple injuries on Cartwright, who claimed Bryan became abusive a month earlier. But Bryan claimed Cartwright woke him up and bit him in the groin.

He alleged that her injuries were self-inflicted in an effort to set him up because she 'wanted to ruin his career' after he said he wanted to break up and stop paying her rent.

'I heard her tell dispatch, 'This is the guy from Home Improvement. He's the famous guy,'' Bryan reportedly told officers on the scene.

Bryan with former Home Improvement co-star Taryn Smith at a mini-reunion in 2018

Bryan with ex-girlfriend Johnnie Faye Cartwright, whom he was later accused of assaulting, and their child

Looking back, he says the arrest 'got so blown out of proportion' by the media, and claims it was not as physical as the police report states.

He explained that he and Cartwright began seeing each other when he was still married and there were times she would get upset over his 'double life.'

And even though he announced his divorce, Bryan claimed the fight escalated that night because they had both 'been drinking too much.

'We didn't even really get that physical,' he said. 'We got really loud. We were screaming and because we were in a townhome that had [thin walls], everybody could hear.'

He continued to say Cartwright 'was at the time just really upset about my situation.'

And, he claimed, 'At the end of the day, [the police] throw a bunch of counts at you because they ultimately want you to plead something,' noting that cops nicknamed him 'Country Club Zach' and seemed to poke fun at his fame.

'I could've fought it... but that's more stress and drama,' Bryan explained. 'I got two misdemeanors and called it a day.'

But he said he now thanks God for his arrest, describing it as a 'wake up call.'

Bryan had said last year that his arrest in 2023 was a 'wake-up call'

Home Improvement was considered one of the biggest sitcom hits of the 1990s

'I went through a situation that I'm pretty sure plenty of people across the globe experience with their partners, and that was a learning experience,' Bryan said.

He acknowledged he 'definitely [has] an issue with drinking' but does not believe the term 'alcoholic' applies to him.

'Dude, I started drinking when I was 14,' he said. 'Back then I was going to nightclubs and they would just let me in because I was the kid from Home Improvement.'

Now, he says, he tries to stay away from alcohol, explaining: 'I'm not going out and getting lit, and that takes away a lot of my problems.'

He and Cartwright were still together prior to his latest arrest.

In November 2021, just one year after his arrest, Bryan revealed that he and Cartwright were engaged to be married.

Based on the timeline of his now private Instagram account, The Hollywood Reporter found, Cartwright was already pregnant with a girl at the time.

He announced the birth on the social media platform in spring 2022.

That November, Bryan also revealed that he and Cartwright were expecting twins, and she gave birth in May.