Jeremy Clarkson has slammed his girlfriend Lisa Hogan's decision to go cold water swimming, begging her to get out of the water so that they could go to the pub.

While filming an episode of the Amazon Prime Video show Clarkson's Farm, Lisa suggested she and Jeremy, 63, enjoy a Saturday wild swim.

But the TV presenter was not impressed and made it clear he would not be taking a dip, according to The Mirror.

He barked at his girlfriend to 'get out' of the water so the pair could go to the pub for a drink, as he claimed 'being drunk is better' than wild swimming.

Lisa was seen in the water with her blonde hair up in a swimming cap, before Jeremy asked her: 'What are you doing?'

Jeremy Clarkson slammed his girlfriend Lisa Hogan's decision to go cold water swimming, begging her to get out of the water so that they could go to the pub while filming an episode of Clarkson's Farm

'Just loitering in cold water,' Lisa replied, at which point Jeremy demanded to know why they weren't at the pub and suggested the couple go home and read a book.

'Apparently because this is the best high you could ever get,' Lisa said trying to convince her partner to join in, adding that he had never tried it.

'I have been in cold water,' Jeremy insisted. 'I've done polar training - it was awful. And trust me I've been drunk - and I've been in cold water - and being drunk is better.'

Fed up of watching Lisa swimming, Jeremy barked: 'So let's go to the pub, get out!

'Come on, please, hurry up.'

It comes after Jeremy finally broke his silence on quitting The Grand Tour after five series.

Jeremy signed a big money deal with the streaming service in 2015 to continue his motoring adventures with former Top Gear co-hosts Richard Hammond and James May.

But now the trio's 20-year-long partnership will draw to a close after Jeremy revealed there was nothing else for them to do.

While filming an episode of the Prime Video show, Lisa suggested she and Jeremy, 63, enjoy a Saturday wild swim

Telling The Times: 'I've driven cars higher than anyone else and further north than anyone else. We've done everything you can do with a car. When we had meetings about what to do next, people just threw their arms in the air'.

He also branded himself 'unfit, fat and old' as another reason that it was time for the 'immensely physical' show to end, following the hosts camping on beaches and racing speed boats in pervious series.

He also brushed of any suggestions of a feud with his co-hosts saying: 'We've spent more time in each other's company than our families' over the last 25 years,

'So I don't think it would have lasted as long as it did if we'd hated each other as much as James likes to think,'.

Before revealing that there options were 'being explored for a new incarnation' of show, which could offer the trio a possibility to reunite on screen.

Jeremy (C) signed a big money deal with the streaming service in 2015 to continue his motoring adventures with former Top Gear co-hosts Richard Hammond (R) and James May (L)

But now the trio's 20-year-long partnership will draw to a close after Jeremy revealed there was nothing else for them to do

An insider told the Sun last year that the 'surprising' decision 'very much marks the end of an era for the three presenters', who have worked together since 2003.

They added that although the show is one of the streaming platform's most watched shows 'the guys have made no bones about the fact they’re all advancing in years and they have lots of other projects to pursue.'

The source told the publication that the broadcasters 'felt like the time was right and wanted to go out on a high when the show remained popular'.

Jeremy, Richard and James shot to superstardom after taking over BBC's Top Gear, turning it from a niche car programme into one of the corporation's hottest properties and selling spin-offs around the world.