Sophie Ellis-Bextor is known for her pop hits including 2001's Murder on the Dancefloor, which recently featured in the film Saltburn and she is set to perform the track at the BAFTAs on Sunday night.

The singer has also been open with fans about her life at home - and her marriage to husband Richard Jones.

The couple have previously told of their heartwarming story about how they met and how their love blossomed.

They went on to start a family together and share five sons.

Here's everything you need to know about Sophie Ellis-Bextor and her musician husband Richard Jones...

Sophie Ellis Bextor's husband is Richard Jones, a bass player for the British rock band The Feeling (Sophie and Richard pictured in 2022)

Who is Sophie Ellis-Bextor's husband Richard Jones?

Sophie Ellis Bextor's husband is Richard Jones, a bass player for the British rock band The Feeling.

Richard, 44, was born in East Sussex and went to The BRIT School in Croydon.

The couple first met during Sophie's 2002 tour for album Read My Lips.

They got married in Italy in 2005.

Richard, 44, was born in East Sussex and went to The BRIT School in Croydon (Richard playing bass with his band The Feeling in 2022)

How did Sophie Ellis-Bextor meet her husband Richard Jones?

Sophie Ellis-Bextor and her husband Richard Jones previously detailed the sweet story of how they met back more than 20 years ago - comparing the tale to 'an American movie'.

The couple, who tied the knot in 2005, met three years prior when the bass guitarist auditioned to tour as part of his wife-to-be's band - and got the gig.

Recalling that there was 'an electricity' between them as they toured together, Richard admitted: 'I was like, wow, look at this ethereal, beautiful woman.'

Despite meeting in 2002, Sophie and Richard remained friends to begin with and didn't strike up a romantic relationship until later.

During an interview with The Guardian, the duo recalled their journey to love after meeting at some auditions.

Laughing as she shared the first thing she ever said to her husband, the Murder On The Dancefloor hitmaker admitted it was 'nice amp', in reference to his sound equipment.

And while it may not seem romantic, Richard now has that exact phrase in his studio in the form of a neon wall light.

Despite the pair both being in respective relationships upon meeting, the guitarist shared that his first impression of Sophie was: 'Wow, look at this ethereal, beautiful woman that is way more beautiful in real life than I expected.'

Explaining that they remained close friends while touring together, Sophie and Richard recalled feeling a 'connection' with one another as their feelings shifted from friendship to romance.

'There was a sort of electricity, something in the air. It was weird. It was like "Oh - and you're both on the same page",' said Richard.

They then ended their respective relationships before meeting up in London.

'It was like in an American movie. We wondered if we would feel the same and it was exactly the same,' said Sophie.

Richard's band The Feeling are seen here in 2021 (L-R: Ciaran Jeremiah, Richard Jones, Dan Gillespie-Sells, Paul Stewart, Kevin Jeremiah)

The couple first met during Sophie's 2002 tour for album Read My Lips. They got married in Italy in 2005 (pictured in November last year)

How may children do Sophie Ellis-Bextor and her husband Richard Jones have?

The pair welcomed their first child, Sonny, now 19, just eight months after making their romance official.

Sophie and Richard went on to welcome four more sons after; Kit, 15, Ray, 11, Jesse, nine, and Mickey, four.

Yet her west London home isn't as crowded these days as she previously revealed that Sonny is now living with her mother, Blue Peter presenter Janet Ellis.

She explained during an appearance on This Morning: 'My oldest son is 19 now and he's just moved out to live my mum, 10 minutes away, it's quite wholesome!'

Of her brood, she added: 'I have five boys but I don't have five of the same person some of them love music and others don't.

'I have one still at home who never wants to come to any of my gigs. But the majority of them like music actually.

'Five of anything is a lot. I love the chaos of big family life luckily. There are always things happening. One is running another has brought four friends over.

'It's a good antidote to the darkness sometimes. They never ask "how did your gig go?" They just tell me about their day and I like that.'

Asked if she plans on having more children, Sophie mused: 'It's probably time to just watch them grow up now. It's hard though. Tricky. I am not one of those people who can form the sentence: "I am done" - I've never been able to form the sentence. It is like my mouth goes... [silent].'

Discussing how her husband feels about them having so many kids, Sophie said: 'He is pretty chill... Rich. I don't think he instigated many of the last few to be honest. He just kind of went... ok then.

'When I was little I was an only child until I was 8. Then my brother Jackson was born and I was absolutely obsessed with him and I think that sowed the seed.

'He [Jackson] was a fresh start and that's something that's hardwired in me. That babies are good.'

Sophie and Richard are parents to sons Sonny, 19, Kit, 15, Ray, 11, Jesse, nine, and Mickey, four