Pippa Middleton's half-term in the Caribbean continues - with the sister of the Princess of Wales showing off her enviable bikini collection.

The 40-year-old, who has three children and is married to Hedge funder James Matthews, is currently enjoying a sun-soaked getaway in St Barts.

The family are staying at five-star Eden Rock, owned by Matthews' parents, on the sun-kissed island.

Beach photos of sporty Pippa show the socialite looking in strong physical shape.

The royal's sister is known for her impressive athletic skills, and has taken part in a number of difficult sporting endeavours over the years.

Pictured on holiday in St Barts this week, Pippa Middleton (pictured) has shown off an expensive bikini collection

Pippa, 40, is currently on holiday in St Barts with her husband James Matthews (pictured, left) with the couple's three children

Pippa and Hedge funder James share three children: here Pippa is pictured with their son Arthur and daughter Grace. They also have a younger daughter Rose

Meanwhile, Pippa's sister Kate is currently several thousand miles away recuperating after abdominal surgery.

Recovering at home, it is thought the 42-year-old will not be seen undertaking public engagements under after Easter.

Her younger sibling has showed off a series of bikinis during her Caribbean jaunt, including a green £232 bikini by luxury swimwear brand Vix.

The princess' sister first rose to prominence as part of the bridal party when Kate wed Prince William in 2011.

The 40-year-old's sporting endeavours would far outweigh what the average person would be capable of.

Pippa, who wed James in May 2017, undertook a punishing 3,000-mile cycling Race Across America before her nuptials.

She also took part in the 6.5km Bosphorus Cross-Continental Skiing Race and the London to Brighton Bike Ride.

She also participated with James and brother-in-law Spencer Matthews in a 47-mile swimming competition in Sweden to raise money for the Michael Matthews Foundation, a charity set up in remembrance of her husband’s brother Michael, who died while descending from Mount Everest in 1999.

The sporty mother-of-three was seen perhaps drying off after a refreshing dip, as she put on a kaftan

The couple, who share three children - Arthur, Grace, and Rose - were both snapped smiling during their trip

The doting mother gently towels off one of her children who had just been for a dip in the Caribbean waters

But she has been forced to cut back on her regime after becoming a mum. ‘Running and fitness still form part of my weekly routine but not to the level it was before,’ she has admitted.

Kate had surgery on January 16 at the London Clinic and has since returned to Adelaide Cottage in Windsor to be with their three children.

Since the royal health announcements, which have also included his father the King's unspecified cancer diagnosis and separate prostate treatment, William has attended few events.

He gave a speech at a London charity engagement raising funds for London's Air Ambulance Charity's new fleet of helicopters earlier this month.

Christopher Nolan's epic biopic about atomic bomb creator J Robert Oppenheimer is expected to be a big winner at the Baftas after Oppenheimer received 13 nominations.

Half-term meant the family was able to spend time together at the luxury Caribbean retreat

James showed he has some sporting prowess by kicking around a ball on the beach

The socialite donned an apricot coloured bikini to enjoy another beach day on St Barts

William has been the president of Bafta since 2010 and Kate first attended the event with her husband in 2017.

It was revealed yesterday that the Prince of Wales will be attending the Bafta film awards in London alone on Sunday as Kate recovers from the procedure in Norfolk.

William, who is president of the British Academy of Film and Television Arts (Bafta), is attending his first high-profile royal engagement since his wife's operation in January.

Initially, it was thought he would miss the event on Sunday at the Southbank Centre's Royal Festival Hall.

Last year, he attended the ceremony along with the Princess of Wales, where they met award-winners Cate Blanchett, Austin Butler and Emma Mackey.