Cat Deeley and her husband Patrick Kielty ditched their glitzy LA lifestyles and returned to the UK several months ago after a 'terrifying' gun situation made them rethink their life in the States.

The news comes as it is confirmed that Cat will become the new face of This Morning alongside Ben Shephard, in a lucrative deal that will see her earn £550,000 a year.

Following her terrifying ideal, she swapped her £3.8 million Beverly Hills mansion for a £4.9million rundown 1950's home in leafy Hampstead in north London where she counts Harry Styles among her neighbours.

Speaking about the reason for her departure from LA, she told YOU magazine in 2020: ‘Fear was part of this. There was a moment when I was with a friend looking at potential schools for Milo and we had to ask the question nobody wants to: “What do you do if there is a live shooter on the premises?”

After both Philip Schofield and Holly Willoughby had left the morning programme, Cat and Ben, aged 47 and 49 respectively, were locked in talks for some months.

Cat Deeley spent some 14-years in the US after her successful presenting career in the UK, but has since returned to the UK

Cat (pictured) aged 47, has been in talks with the show for some months now, since the exit of Holly Willoughby and Phillip Schofield

They were replaced for some time by Dermot O'Leary and Alison Hammond.

Cat's role on the show will see the star reportedly lose her long-time role on So You Think You Can Dance in the US, where she was reportedly paid £43k an episode - instead opting for the role on This Morning with a reported £550k annual salary.

The news was confirmed via a bespoke promo on This Morning's Twitter, showing Ben walking down the familiar This Morning production corridor and placing a new photo of Cat on the wall, before turning to the camera as the photo comes to life.

Ben said: 'This really feels like a very special moment for Cat and I to be part of the next chapter of This Morning. It's an honour to be trusted with the reigns, join Alison and Dermot and all the team that work on and off screen and do such a great job

'For the last ten years I've been waking up with our ITV daytime audience on GMB and I now look forward to spending time with Cat...

'Welcoming the viewers home after the school run or from their early morning routines, with a cup of tea and a mix of everything that makes This Morning so loved.'

Cat added: 'This Morning is a national institution. Whenever it's on, it's like having your friends over - funny, smart, silly, heartfelt, informative and joyful - like all the greatest friendships!...

'This Morning is and always will be the viewer's show. Ben and I both know how much people love it, and with the help of an amazing team of people, we're going to do our best to take care of it.'

It was once uncertain whether Cat Deeley (pictured in California) would ever return to her native UK after making a name for herself in the States and living the LA dream but she has already returned

THE FAMOUS COUCH: Cat Deeley sitting on This Morning's famous coach, which she will be sitting on daily once she starts working on the sho

Cat Deeley and Ben Shephard have been unveiled as the new hosts of This Morning, ITV revealed on Friday, with a teaser clip showing their images been erected in the ITV corridors

Ben said: 'This really feels like a very special moment for Cat and I to be part of the next chapter of This Morning. It's an honour to be trusted with the reigns, join Alison and Dermot and all the team that work on and off screen and do such a great job'

The family danger faced more danger in the summer of 2019 when eldest son Milo, now six, and his father went to the Century City Mall in LA after morning nursery.

The FBI turned up with guns and ordered everyone to take cover under counters or hide because a shooter was on the loose.

‘They shut down the centre. I got a call from Paddy, saying, “They’re taking us out through the fire exits but nobody can get to their car. If we walk to a junction, can you come and get us?”

‘He wanted to keep Milo calm, so I didn’t understand the enormity of what was happening. As I was driving I began to see helicopters, news vans, firemen and SWAT [armed police response] squads.

‘It was terrifying. Paddy was shaken by it, more than Milo, who was hot and cranky but didn’t properly understand.’

Cat (pictured in the UK) swapped her £3.8 million Beverly Hills mansion for a £4.9million rundown 1950's home in leafy Hampstead in north London where she counts Harry Styles among her neighbours

Cat's move to the US had paid off, as she grew into the award-winning host of primetime shows like So You Think You Can Dance, for which she’s had five Emmy nominations, and made an estimated £15 million fortune.

But spending time with her family, including sons Milo and James, four, also promoted her decision to move back to London.

She told Lorraine in 2020: 'We had always thought, our boys have got grandparents, aunts, uncles, cousins that they adore and they adore them right back. It’s such a special moment in time and you don’t get those times back.'

Meanwhile, the couple were also keen for their boys to be schooled back home in the UK.

Cat and Patrick put their Beverly Hills mansion on the market for $4.9 million (£3.8 million), in August that year.

The sprawling mansion was a four bedroom contemporary home that spans 3,804 square feet, and the ridge-top property boasts modern furnishings, a pool area with stunning cross-canyon views, as well as its own spa.

The TV presenter first bought the property back in 2006 for $2.7 million (£2.05 million), according to Variety, and had since done extensive renovations to update the late 1970s home.

On their doorstep: Cat, Patrick and their sons had been enjoying the various pleasures Los Angeles has to offer

Following their return to Britain, Cat and Patrick are reportedly creating a Beverly Hills-style home afters napping up an abandoned property for nearly £5million.

The celebrity couple are bringing a touch of Hollywood glamour to leafy Hampstead in north London where they count Harry Styles among their new neighbours.

They paid £4.9million for the rundown 1950's home which lay derelict after being unoccupied for a number of years.

They've been given the go-ahead to 'renovate, extend and upgrade' the five bedroom property and transform it into a haven of 'modern day family living'.

It comes as This Morning bosses have reportedly begged Cat Deeley and Ben Shephard to take over as Holly Willoughby and Phillip Schofield's permanent replacements on the show.

Holly, 42, and Phillip, 61, both left the ITV daytime show last year and since there has been a rotating group of stars at the helm.

Cat impressed viewers with her presenting skills when she appeared on the show in November and was said to have left bosses devastated when she then turned down the main gig.

However, new reports claim that producers went back to the drawing board to try and woo the former children's TV star and are set to announce as her the new Monday to Thursday host alongside Ben Shephard.

It's possible the reason for the sudden U-turn is financial, with Cat set to nab a bumper payday as the new host.

It comes as This Morning bosses reportedly begged Cat Deeley and Ben Shephard to take over as Holly Willoughby and Phillip Schofield's permanent replacements on the show (pictured on the show in November)

Producers reportedly went back to the drawing board to try and woo the former children's TV star and are set to announce as her the new host alongside Ben Shephard (pictured on the show in September)

It's claimed Cat and Ben will receive an annual salary of £555,000 which pales in comparison toPhillip Schofield and Holly Willoughby, who were said to have been paid £700,000

When reports of her joining the show first emerged last year it was claimed she and Ben would receive an annual salary of £555,000.

While hefty, the salary still paled in comparison to former hosts Holly and Phil, who were said to have been paid £700,000 annually for their role.

However, Cat isn't short of cash as she currently earns at least £344,000 a season hosting So You Think You Can Dance in the States, where she is said to be paid £43,000 an episode.

The new series is set to air in March and Cat has been dividing her time between the States and the UK for filming.

Therefore it stands to reason that if Cat has changed her mind about appearing on This Morning her contract would possibly allow her to continue juggling her LA gig.

Cat and Ben's decision to join the show was reported by The Mirror on Thursday, with a source saying: 'The cat's out of the bag - they are the new dream team. ITV is planning to announce Cat and Ben as their new star pairing in March.

'Obviously Ben is well known and loved by the ITV daytime audience thanks to his many years on the breakfast sofa. Cat is also a very recognisable face, thanks to her long stint of working on kids' TV, although she's been over in the US for a long time.

'People were very impressed with her guest presenting stint last year alongside Rylan and thankfully the timing has all come together. Everyone is delighted.'

It comes after it was reported late last year that Cat had 'turned down' the job offer.

Cat's move to the US had paid off, as she grew into the award-winning host of primetime shows like So You Think You Can Dance, for which she’s had five Emmy nominations, and made an estimated £15 million fortune. Pictured, Cat and her sons in the UK

Dermot O'Leary and Alison Hammond look set to continue as the show's regular Friday and school holiday presenters.

It comes after Holly left the show last October 'for the sake of her family' after discovering she was the target of a foiled kidnap and murder plot and has since not been replaced permanently.

It came five months after Phillip Schofield's departure after his affair with a young male showrunner was made public, followed by claims of an increasingly strained relationship with his co-host.

Cat began her career as a co-presenter for the ITV children's show SMTV Live, for which she won a BAFTA Children's Award, and its spin-off chart show CD:UK.

Meanwhile Ben, 49, joined GMB in 2014 and has been with them ever since and is one of their most loved stars.