Michelle Pfeiffer gushed over her husband David E Kelley on Instagram on Thursday.

The two were seen head to head as they looked more in love than ever after being married for 30 years.

'About last night,' was all Michelle's social media caption said.

The 65 year-old actress smiled up close alongside Kelley - who has produced the Big Little Lies series - as she wore a black dress with a plunging neckline.

One commenter wrote, 'They are so in love. It's truly beautiful.'

The pair married in 1993 and share two children together.

Michelle Pfeiffer gushed over husband David E. Kelley via Instagram on Thursday captioning it 'about last night'

In the 1980s and 1990s, Michelle rose to fame as one of Hollywood's most bankable actors and became one of the defining sex symbols of the time.

She revealed in December that she met her husband on a group date turned blind date.

Pfeiffer told PEOPLE she 'was anxious,' and that the date 'didn't go well.'

To her surprise, Kelley called her two days later and they lived happily ever after.

At the time they first got together, the Scarface actress was in the process of adopting her first daughter Claudia.

'It was sort of perfectly timed. I mean, it's a real testament to the kind of person he is,' said Michelle, 'but also to the fact that sometimes the traditional way of doing things isn't always the best way.'

Kelley adopted Claudia in 1993 following his marriage to Michelle.

John Henry, the son of the couple, was welcomed into the family a year later.

She revealed in December that she met her husband on a group date turned blind date; seen in January

In the 1980s and 1990s, Michelle rose to fame as one of Hollywood's most profitable actors and became one of the defining sex symbols of the time; seen in Scarface in 1983

Pfeiffer is in talks to star in a new Yellowstone untitled spinoff series.

In November 2023, Paramount revealed the premiere date for the final episodes of Yellowstone and also confirmed the spin-off under the working title 2024.

The show is now set to air at the end of the year, after Yellowstone wraps up its run, however McConaughey has still not officially signed on.