Delivery of billions of letters could be delayed under plans drawn up by Royal Mail to save up to £650million annually, it was revealed yesterday.

Official letters including those for hospital appointments, fines and court documents would take longer to be delivered under a scheme to affect 'bulk mail'.

Sources told the Sunday Times that Royal Mail was 'actively exploring' proposals to lengthen the time it has to deliver such letters to three days instead of two.

The newspaper reported that talks had already started with hospitals, government agencies and large businesses about the scheme, which would need approval from the regulator Ofcom.

Official letters including those for hospital appointments, fines and court documents would take longer to be delivered under a scheme to affect 'bulk mail' (File Image)

The plan comes after Prime Minister Rishi Sunak ruled out cutting postal rounds from six-days-a-week to just three (Stock Image)

The plan comes after Prime Minister Rishi Sunak ruled out cutting postal rounds from six-days-a-week to just three.

Current rules mean that first-class post should arrive at its destination the next day and second-class items within three days.

So-called bulk mail from public services and businesses - which makes up around 70 percent of all letters posted in the UK - is meant to be delivered within two days of posting. Some organisations have already opted for a cheaper five-day service.

Changing that to three days could save Royal Mail between £150million and £650million, according to Ofcom.

Royal Mail, which was privatised in 2013, recorded a £319million half-year loss in November and is under pressure to cut costs. It has been fined for failing to meet delivery targets.

A Royal Mail spokeswoman said: 'Ofcom's report demonstrates that reform is urgently needed to protect the future of the one-price-goes-anywhere Universal Service.

'We are doing everything in our power to transform, but it is not sustainable to maintain a network built for 20billion letters when we are now only delivering seven billion.

'We are actively considering the options put forward in Ofcom's report, in discussion with our customers, employees and unions.'