Tampa Bay shortstop Wander Franco failed to report for spring training with the Rays on Sunday - the deadline ahead of the team's first official full-roster workout.

The 22-year-old is accused of having an inappropriate relationship with a 14-year-old girl back in his native Dominican Republic.

According to the Tampa Bay Times, the rest of the Rays' position players reported for training on Sunday ahead of Monday's workout.

MLB’s 'mandatory report date' is February 24, giving the Rays another week before a decision has to be made regarding Franco’s status for the start of the season.

The All-Star shortstop reportedly remains in the Dominican Republic and would face a battle to return to the US while the investigation remains ongoing.

Tampa Bay shortstop Wander Franco failed to report for spring training with the Rays

MLB players are paid from the start of the regular season and if Franco is still unavailable by then, he could be placed back on administrative leave or on the restricted list.

He is due to be paid $2million this season as part of his 11 year, $182m contract with Tampa Bay.

Franco was expected to be back in court in his homeland earlier this month. The 22-year-old is also accused of physical abuse and commercial sexual exploitation of a 14-year-old girl.

The All-Star shortstop was due back in court in his native Dominican Republic this month

According to prosecutors, and testimonies from the girl and other members of her family, Franco paid the girl's mother thousands of dollars in cash and other gifts, in exchange for the mother's consent to engage in a sexual relationship with her daughter.

The Code for the Protection of the Right of Children and Adolescents, Law 136-03 in the Dominican Republic, considers sexual abuse as any relationship between a minor and a person five years older. Franco started engaging in a relationship with the girl when she was 14 and he was 21.

Franco was due back in court on February 8, when the girl was set to face questioning from the judge.