Megan Fox showcased her dramatic new look at the the 49th annual People's Choice Awards in Santa Monica, California.

The Transformers star, 37, arrived to the Barker Hangar in a white strapless dress and sporting pink hair amid plastic surgery rumors that emerged after her appearance at the Super Bowl.

She opted to skip the red carpet, choosing instead to present an award alongside Joe Manganiello.

Incorporating a black choker into the ensemble, the star also flaunted her new sleeve of body art.

Fans quickly commented on Megan's appearance online, with many drawing comparisons between the star and the stop-motion Bride of Chucky character from the Child's Play horror films.

Megan Fox showcased her dramatic new look as she took to the stage at the 49th annual People's Choice Awards in Santa Monica, California, with Joe Manganiello

She opted to skip the red carpet, choosing instead to present an award alongside Joe Manganiello

The actress' visage was noticeably taut as she appeared onstage Sunday night

One X user posted, 'why megan lookin like the bride of chucky rn,' as another asked 'Is megan fox giving bride of chucky on purpose?'

The People's Choice appearance comes after Megan was accused of being 'xenophobic' while attempting to defend her shock new appearance, likening herself in one photo to a 'Ukrainian blowup doll.'

The Transformers star responded to critics on Wednesday, attributing the alteration of her image to a 'shadowy' photo. However, her rebuttal sparked controversy as she proudly claimed that 'in reality,' she resembles a 'super expensive silicone real sex doll' from Japan.

'Oh my god guys look how different i…dont look at all,' she began her bizarre post. 'Turns out it was just a shadowy cell phone pic of me looking like a Ukrainian blowup doll. when in REALITY i look like one of those super expensive silicone real sex dolls you can only get in Japan.'

The actress initially trended on social media on Tuesday after fans claimed they didn't recognize her in newly-surfaced pictures from her Sunday night celebration at Zouk nightclub in Las Vegas early Monday.

Fox was with her fiancé Machine Gun Kelly, 33, as they celebrated with famous friends Taylor Swift, 34, and Travis Kelce, 34, after his Kansas City Chiefs won their second straight Super Bowl.

She was swiftly slammed by people in the comment section adjacent to the photo, with social media users not holding back their outrage at her choice of words.

One user said to Fox, 'It's very rude of you to speak like that about Ukrainian women, that's how you showed yourself.'

The Transformers star, 37, arrived to the Barker Hangar in a white strapless dress and sporting pink hair amid plastic surgery rumors that emerged after her appearance at the Super Bowl

Incorporating a black choker into the ensemble, the star also flaunted her new sleeve of body art

Fox put on a vampy display with her plump lips coated in a crimson color

The People's Choice appearance comes after Megan was accused of being 'xenophobic' while attempting to defend her shock new appearance, likening herself in one photo to a 'Ukrainian blowup doll'

Fans quickly commented on Megan's appearance online, with many drawing comparisons between the star and the stop-motion Bride of Chucky character from the Child's Play horror films

One user said, 'Did she really just mention Ukraine?' while another commented, 'I guess xenophobia towards Eastern European is still a thing in Hollywood.'

The image from the lively night out in Sin City, shared on Tuesday, depicted both couples posing together.

Several fans commented that Fox appeared noticeably different from what they were used to, with some going as far as questioning if it was really her.

Meanwhile, MEgan commanded attentin at the People's Choice Awards, where Barbie and Oppenheimer AKA 'Barbenheimer' has ruled award season and tonight's show is no exception as they earned the most nods in the movie categories.

Margot Robbie and Ryan Reynold's flick is the top nominee with nine nominations including individual nods for the two leading stars.

Meanwhile, Christopher Nolan directed Oppenheimer follows behind with six including recognitions for Cillian Murphy and Florence Pugh.

Two weeks after her record breaking run at the Grammy Awards Taylor Swift leads all musicians with five nominations.

She was nominated for a range of categories including for her songs, social media presence, and even her The Eras Tour concert film which was a massive global hit at the box office.

Megan was accused of being 'xenophobic' while defending her apparent changing appearance in an unflattering photo, likening herself to a 'Ukrainian blowup doll'

Fox was pictured in Las Vegas Friday (L); in Los Angeles in December of 2019 (center) and in September of 2014 in Australia

Taylor was in interesting company as rapper Nicki Minaj and country musicians Luke Combs and Morgan Wallen also earned five nods.

When it comes to television Only Murders In The Building earned the most nominations including recognitions for Selena Gomez, Meryl Streep, and Steve Martin.

The reality show of the year category will be especially interesting as Vanderpump Rules will be the favorite coming off of the Scandoval scandal as it will be facing heavy competition including from Hulu's The Kardashians.

The event will be hosted by Marvel Cinematic Universe star Simu Liu who is best known for his roles in sitcom Kim’s Convenience as well as in Marvel’s Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings.

He also portrayed one of the several Kens in the aforementioned $1.4billion blockbuster Barbie.

As hosting during award season has been a major talking point, the 34-year-old Chinese-Canadian actor told USA Today: 'It’s not about slandering anyone.

Barbie and Oppenheimer AKA 'Barbenheimer' has ruled award season and tonight's show is no exception as they earned the most nods in the movie categories

Two weeks after her record breaking run at the Grammy Awards Taylor Swift leads all musicians wife five nominations; she is pictured in March 2023

When it comes to television Only Murders In The Building earned the most nominations including recognitions for Selena Gomez, Meryl Streep (pictured), and Steve Martin

The event will be hosted by Marvel Cinematic Universe star Simu Liu (pictured in January) who is best known for his roles in sitcom Kim’s Convenience as well as in Marvel’s Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings

'It’s not about getting the most offensive joke that you can possibly get away with. It’s not about being the guy that’s cutting other people down.'

The event will also see major presenters including musicians Victoria Monet and Kane Brown.

Kylie Minogue, Lainey Wilson and Lenny Kravitz are also set to perform on the telecast.

NBC and E! will air a two-hour live telecast of the 2024 People’s Choice Awards ceremony on on Sunday, Feb. 18, at 8 p.m. ET. The show can also be streamed on Peacock.