Fiona Bruce is the latest BBC presenter to be caught out giving her viewers something less than the unvarnished truth about one of her guests.

On BBC Question Time in Lancaster last week, she introduced a panellist with a glowing reference: 'Juergen Maier is a leading industrialist and business adviser. For five years he was CEO of Siemens UK.

'Now he argues for the green re-industrialisation of northern Britain and is co-founder of vocL, a social enterprise encouraging business leaders to engage in public debate.'

But, strangely, no mention that in December Maier was appointed by Keir Starmer to head a review of rail and transport projects.

Whilst introducing panellist Juergen Maier on BBC's Question Time presenter Fiona Bruce didn't mention that Keir Starmer appointed him to head a review of rail and transport projects in December

German-born Maier told Kier Starmer 'Do not let populism make you waver' before Sir Kier's U-turn on Labour's pledge of £28 billion annual spending on green projects

German-born Mr Maier, who has called for Britain to rejoin the single market, also used to be passionate about Labour's plan for a £28 billion annual spending splurge on green projects, paid for through borrowing — a policy which Starmer finally put out of its misery this month.

Urging Sir Keir to stand firm before he executed one of his now customary U-turns, Maier said: 'Do not let populism make you waver.' So did he take the opportunity on Question Time to hold Sir Keir to account over the policy change? Of course he didn't.

As we learned Prince Harry had changed his children's surname to Sussex, former minister Ed Balls joked his own name had caused him troubles growing up.

But he quipped on the Political Currency podcast: 'If you think it was bad for me, think how much worse it was for my sister Ophelia. She had a much harder time at school.'

Demis' big slice of radio history

One of Steve Wright's first radio gigs was on Reading 210 in 1976 with fellow DJ Mike Read. Mike, who also went on to be a Radio 1 star, recalls how they secured a heavyweight interview with Greek singer Demis Roussos, who tipped the scales at 23st. The so-called Kaftan King agreed to be on their show on the condition that he was given cake. After being offered a slice, he said: 'No, I want cake, a whole big cake!'

After an on-air appeal, a cake was delivered. 'Demis sat in the garden in his huge kaftan scoffing the lot, not giving even a crumb to anybody else,' says Read. 'But at least we got our interview.'

Greek singer Demis Roussos who only agreed to go on Reading 210 if he was given cake

Succession star Brian Cox was last week pictured with Queen Camilla at a Shakespeare celebration at the Grosvenor House Hotel. Can this be the same Cox, a devotee of the SNP, who in 2020 said he would wash his hands of the monarchy after the death of Queen Elizabeth? 'When she's gone the whole bloody shooting match should go... We won't end this feudal hold on our culture and system until then.' What a hypocrite.

Succession star Brian Cox pictured last week with Queen Camilla at a Shakespeare celebration at the Grosvenor House Hotel

Labour supporters shouldn't get too carried away after their victories in last week's by-elections. In Wellingborough, the party's winning total of 13,844 votes was only 107 more than in the last general election when they lost by more than 18,000 votes. Meanwhile, in Kingswood the party's 11,176 votes were 5,316 fewer than in 2019.

Not so great after all, Sir Keir.

There was an interesting offer from Reform UK's Ben Habib, who secured the party's largest vote in a by-election with 13 per cent in last week's Wellingborough poll.

'If I become an MP, I will not draw a salary for the entire time I serve in Parliament,' he told me. Not that he needs the £86,584 wage. One estimate puts his fortune at £45 million. He insists: 'It's a gross exaggeration.'

Trump the Roman Emperor

Historian Mary Beard reveals why she compared Donald Trump to the Roman emperor Elagabalus. 'He is the classic awful emperor who rules in the early third century for just four years,' she tells the podcast Library Talks. 'If you think Nero and Caligula are bad, they're pussycats compared with Elagabalus. He has an Imelda Marcos tendency — he never wears the same pair of shoes twice. He's also a bit of a jokester, so he invents the whoopee cushion. Go to dinner with [him] and you're sitting on inflatable cushions and he has his slaves let the air out of the cushions and you end up on the floor.' At least he served only four years.