Welcome to Sportsmail's weekly Fantasy Football column which will try to help you get the edge on your friends, family and Jamie Redknapp.

Here, Rik Sharma considers the key issues in the game, from the men to bring in or avoid, through to which teams have a tasty looking run of fixtures.

In years gone by, Manchester United were reliable. Trustworthy.

Players like Nemanja Vidic and Wayne Rooney pulled their weight.

Before them, it was Cristiano Ronaldo and Ruud van Nistelrooy.

You could put three of them in your fantasy football side and be assured that you were getting what you paid for.

But that simply isn’t the case any more.

David Moyes hasn’t put a strategy in place for his version of the Red Devils. If you were asked to describe how they go about playing football, you’d find it hard to put in words.

Some of the supporters might find a few abrasive four-letter ones.

Perhaps the only consistent theme with this side is that they cross the ball a lot.

But Wayne Rooney and Robin van Persie aren’t incredible in the air. Juan Mata is better in the middle than on the flank.

And it adds up, both in real-life and in fantasy football, to a lot of expensive players putting in not-very-good results.

The defence, meanwhile, is clearly not good enough either. Nemanja Vidic is leaving, Rio Ferdinand and Patrice Evra are set to join him in the march towards the Old Trafford exit.

It just leaves a lot of rotation at the back and youngsters like Chris Smalling out of his depth.

Pulling in different directions: Robin van Persie (right) was outspoken about his team-mates after a humbling defeat in Greece

No case for the defence: Nemanja Vidic (left) is looking past his best, while Patrice Evra is on his way out too

The good old days: Ruud van Nistelrooy and Cristiano Ronaldo were must-haves for fantasy football owners

There’s even disharmony in the camp. Van Persie said, after the Olympiacos defeat: ‘Our fellow players are sometimes occupying the spaces I want to play in.

‘And unfortunately, they are often playing in my zones. I think that’s a shame.

‘And when I see that, it makes it difficult for me to come to those spaces as well.

‘So that forces me to adjust my runs, based on the position of my fellow players.’

Perhaps that explains why the game’s most expensive player is only the 14th top-scoring striker.

Rooney, his strike partner (allegedly; they barely pass to each other) is faring better, in seventh place, but that’s still no great shakes.

Midfielder Antonio Valencia is the top scoring United player in that department.

The leader of the pack: Antonio Valencia (left) is United's top-scoring midfielder... but only the 49th in the game

Low scoring: At a princely £9million, Michael Carrick has earned just 67 points

But he’s a shocking 49th. That puts him in what would be the 12th best midfield in the Premier League if it was based on goals, assists and wins.

His team-mates, Ashley Young, Michael Carrick, Adnan Januzaj and Co, fare significantly worse.

Evra is the highest scoring United defender and he’s 14th, boosted by scoring a handful of goals.

If you’ve been holding onto any United player, in the hope they might eventually come good, you’re waiting for Godot.

Ditch them, and quickly.

The classic combo

Andy Carroll is back from his three-match suspension and nobody will be happier than his partner in crime Kevin Nolan.

West Ham are in fine form and it was kick started by the big striker’s return from injury.

It got Nolan, who feeds on his knock-downs and layoffs, back among the goals and he’s been scoring since.

Of course, Carroll was sent off for that elbow flung at Chico Flores, and has been absent, but it hasn’t stopped the Hammers knocking down any nails that stick up in their path.

Back in action: Andy Carroll (right) will be reunited with pal Kevin Nolan (left) after completing his three-match ban

Are Everton going to be their next victims this weekend? Even if Carroll doesn’t find the net himself, he boosts the potential of midfielder Nolan.

He’d be a fine differential at this stage of the season.

Have we got the Blackpool Adam back?

More known for his clumping tackles than his assists and goals these days, Charlie Adam is a far cry from his Blackpool days.

But in recent weeks, that’s started to change.

Mixed bag: Is Charlie Adam (right) becoming a more attractive proposition at £5m?

The Scot has started to take control of games for Stoke, bagging three goals in his last nine games, and playing several key passes.

However, he’s still got that lack of discipline - he’s been booked four times in the last five matches.

Swans survival push

In a recent column it was made clear that Swansea had a great chance to start pushing forward in their bid to avoid the drop.

Their 4-3 defeat by Liverpool won’t have been good for the defence but anyone who put Wilfried Bony in on the back of that will have benefited.

And that came after drawing 0-0 with Napoli in the Europa League.

Upturn in fortunes? Wilfried Bony (second left) is crucial to Swansea's survival hopes

If they hadn’t put so much effort in against the Italians, who knows what might have happened?

Having played - and lost 3-1 - in Italy again, the squad may be tired for their game against Crystal Palace on Sunday night.

It’s a shame, as that would be a great opportunity for their key players to score points.

If you have Swansea players in your side, perhaps you’ll be hoping they’re knocked out of Europe to concentrate on domestic affairs.

Super SuarezEase the pain for M Who's going to save Crystal Palace?

Most selected XI

GK: Simon Mignolet (28.01%)

DF: Leighton Baines (34.54%)

DF: Branislav Ivanovic (19.04%)

DF: John Terry (17.71%)

DF: Pablo Zabaleta (17.46%)

MF: Eden Hazard (27.56%)

MF: Yaya Toure (24.22%)

MF: Oscar (20.74%)

ST: Luis Suarez (35.77%)

ST: Robin van Persie (34.20%)

ST: Olivier Giroud (19.80%)

Lynchpin: Luis Suarez (left) is a keystone to Liverpool's hopes this season - and more than one in three of you have the Uruguayan in your team

Play on the go!

We've launched our mobile Fantasy Football site which makes it even easier for you to make transfers and substitutions on the go.

You might not have the time to sit around at home and mull over transfer decisions but now you can do it while you're on the bus, or waiting in the supermarket queue, or wherever else you fancy.

You can now play MailOnline's Fantasy Football game on your mobile - making transfers and subs on the go!



Jamie Redknapp's team for this weekend... Jamie Redknapp transfers: Yaya Toure (Man City) out, Santi Cazorla (Arsenal) in

Premier League week 28 fixtures