Fans took to social media to mock Man City's 'forced' arrival fun at the Etihad

Manchester City have been mocked on social media after the nature of their arrival to The Etihad Stadium for Saturday's 1-1 draw with Chelsea.

Fans waited pre-match in the pouring Manchester rain to see their heroes arrive ahead of the tea time clash with the Blues, and got their reward when they saw the team coach pull up outside the ground.

However, this was no ordinary arrival as the coach was greeted by booming club music and a voice over the PA system announcing the team names as they got off the bus.

The announcer began by saying, 'This is the moment you've all been waiting for!' before declaring the arrival of the FA Cup winners, Premier League champions and Champions League winners, to the soaked crowd of fans waiting.

He then proceeded to announce each Man City player one-by-one as the walked down the entranceway and into the stadium, in a similar vein to a boxing or WWE star walking down an aisle.

The Man City players arrive to booming music and introduced over the PA by an announcer

Fans waited in the pouring rain to see the Manchester City players arrive before kick-off

Manchester City were held to a 1-1 draw by Chelsea as they dropped points in the title race

Your browser does not support iframes.

The upbeat announcer tried to keep the crowd's damp spirits up and repeatedly asked the supporters to 'make some noise' as he introduced each Man City star.

The scenes were caught on social media and the club have been ridiculed by fans for the unusual arrival of Pep Guardiola's team.

'This is the worst thing I've ever seen in my life, so forced', one fan wrote upon seeing the awkward arrival in the rain. While another said, 'The most cringe video to watch on a Sunday morning.'

'What the hell have I just watched?' explained on viewer, while a Newcastle supporter hoped this wasn't something he'd see in the future from his club by posting, 'This is hilarious, please god let us never turn into this.'

The announcer was also targeted after another post criticised the club for previously starting chants, and following it up with this forced arrival performance.

He said on X; 'First the stadium announcer starting chants now this. Embarrassing.' Along with several crying with laughter emojis.

Fans went on social media to mock the video of Man City arriving to the ground on Saturday

Manchester City wasted a number of chances in the game before a late equaliser from Rodri

The 'pumped' arrival couldn't inspire the City team to victory over Mauricio Pochettino's men, as they dropped vital points in the Premier League title race.

Former Man City star Raheem Sterling put Chelsea ahead in the first half, and after Erling Haaland unusually wasted a number of chances, City had to rely on a late equaliser from Rodri to rescue a point.

The draw leaves them four points behind Liverpool at the top of the table, after the Reds thrashed Brentford 4-1 earlier in the day.

City do have the chance to close the gap on midweek, as play out their game in hand with the visit of The Bees.