You want showbiz? You want celebrity? You want reassuringly expensive A-lister stardust?

Here it comes in the shape of Sarah Jessica Parker and Matthew Broderick, with their hit Broadway production of Neil Simon's Sixties comedy about marriages teetering on the brink in a New York hotel room.

I wondered if the real-life Parker-Broderick married couple – best known on screen for Sex And The City and Ferris Bueller's Day Off (among others) – might prove too grand for the roar of the grease paint and the smell of a crowd.

And make no mistake, Simon's play is a taut, demanding work requiring the duo to play a trio of different comic roles and keep an audience chuckling for two hours and 40 minutes straight.

But most interestingly, in a play about the vicissitudes of love and marriage, this showbiz power couple inevitably put their own union centre-stage. There's no way they could get through this play without probing their own hang-ups.

Dressed for Ladies Day at Ascot: Sarah Jessica Parker in Plaza Suite

Double act: Matthew Broderick with wife Sarah Jessica Parker

Checking in: Matthew Broderick in the hit Broadway production of Neil Simon's Sixties comedy about marriages teetering on the brink in a New York hotel room

And yet where there's angst there's laughs, and Simon's wit blows fresh air through any uncertainties we may feel.

Mrs Broderick opens the batting as scatty, suburban New Yorker Karen, who's booked Manhattan's fanciest hotel to revive her marriage to Mr Parker's portly and vain businessman Sam, who she suspects of having an affair.

He is an amusingly tweedy, monosyllabic mood-Hoover, who very nearly sucks the life out of the stage in an overlong first half.

But unlike self-absorbed Carrie Bradshaw in Sex And The City, there's no condescension about SJP. She is a loveable, chirpy, bridge-building chatterbox eager to open champagne and slip into a negligee.

Playing a fiftysomething couple is plausible for two actors now both around 60, but they ride their luck in the second act as former high-school sweethearts hooking up 17 years later, thick Sixties wigs arguably making them look even older.

Shops and the city: SJP opens the batting as scatty, suburban New Yorker Karen, who's booked Manhattan's fanciest hotel to revive her marriage to Mr Parker's portly and vain businessman Sam, who she suspects of having an affair

They are, however, giddy and playful enough to carry it off – she as a jittery mum from out of town in a short psychedelic print dress, and he a rueful Hollywood producer in a lurid combo of check trousers, blue polo neck and orange jacket.

Their piece de resistance, though, is the final scene as a society couple whose daughter has locked herself in the loo on her wedding day. SJP looks dressed for Ladies Day at Ascot, while MB turns out looking like a frazzled Norman Lamont, just out of bed in a morning suit.

Although SJP performs comic gymnastics of her own, Broderick covers most of the physical comedy, including getting stuck in a window frame while venturing onto a seventh-floor ledge.

With a few tickets retailing at an eye-watering £300 (decent seats are £75-125 and good ones £200), it's pulling a notably well-heeled crowd – TV favourite Hannah Waddingham was among the guests at the gala performance last night.

And I'm not sure who's stooping lower with the Moet & Chandon vending machines – the producers, the punters or the wine-makers. But John Benjamin Hickey's production doesn't scrimp on the stage set.

It's a monster of stately New England chintz. Think crusty gold panelling, 200lb triple-lined curtains and a rococo bedhead worthy of a presidential suite.

They say chintz is coming back into fashion, but it's still a slightly frumpy, frowning spectacle. However, frisky performances lighten the visual load and lift the spirits. Whether that justifies the admission price, gentle reader, only you can tell.

But it's a top-of-the-range revival of a comic antique. All you need, ladies, is a Mr Big who will not flinch at the price tag – which is a good test of his character too.