Soul star Sheila Ferguson has been branded a ‘diva’ with her demanding behaviour on BBC1 travel series The Real Marigold Hotel, but she charmed Prince Charles in the Seventies.

And now the Three Degrees singer is to tell all about her enduring friendship with the heir to the throne. ‘I’m actually writing my autobiography,’ she reveals.

Ferguson, 69, has always made clear she was not romantically involved with Charles, 68, who invited her group to perform at his 30th birthday in November 1978.

Hot steps: Prince Charles Sheila Ferguson (far right) dancing at a charity concert in 1978

The Prince had met the Three Degrees before and is said to have been so besotted with Ferguson that he made amorous advances.

The American singer, whose hits include When Will I See You Again and Woman In Love, has said in the past that she refused to let anything happen.

However, asked in 2014 if she had contemplated the possibilities had she and Charles become a couple, she replied: ‘Let’s be real.

‘There’s never going to be a black queen of England, so there was no future in it.’

She added: ‘Charles and I got on so well because we come from such different backgrounds.

‘When he’s one-on-one, he’s got such a great sense of humour, but he’s always a gentleman.’

Prince Charles was said to be besotted with Ferguson when they met during the Seventies (pictured, the Prince dances with the Three Degrees in 1978)

The divorced mother-of-two still has personal letters the Prince sent her. She says: ‘He’s a nice guy. We did a lot for charity. Obviously once he got married [to Diana, in 1981] there was no contact unless it was about business or an event or whatever.’

Ferguson, who is an ambassador of The Prince’s Trust, added: ‘The Press have always speculated that something went on between me and Charles, and they always will.

‘I don’t care how many times I deny it, they always write it.

‘Until my book comes out, they’re not going to know the truth.

‘I will explain why when I write it, and it’s very complicated.’

Duke's girl makes a nightie of it

Welcome to her Royal Thighness.

The granddaughter of the Duke of Kent, Lady Amelia Windsor, 21, looked as though she had just stepped out of bed when she turned up to attend the launch of singer Ellie Goulding’s new shoe range in East London.

Lady Amelia Windsor (left), 21, looked as though she had just stepped out of bed when she turned up to attend the launch of singer Ellie Goulding’s (right, together) new shoe range in East London

Dressed in what looked like a negligee coupled with blue trainers, Amelia made sure all eyes were on her rather than the main event.

Amelia, who is studying French and Italian at the University of Edinburgh, is signed to model agency Storm and recently returned from Milan, where she walked on the catwalk for Dolce & Gabbana.

Goulding is a royal favourite having sung at William and Kate’s wedding. She also performed at Prince Harry’s 30th birthday party, as well as at the closing ceremony of the 2014 Invictus Games for injured servicemen as a favour to the Prince.