Second home owners in an upmarket area dubbed 'Chelsea-on-Sea' will be made to pay double council tax as part of measures designed to protect properties for locals.

The new levy, which will come into effect from next year, has been approved by members of King's Lynn and West Norfolk Council.

Residents of desirable seaside locations in the area such as Burnham Market and Brancaster have already voted to curb soaring numbers of holiday homes by voting in referendums for measures including new build homes being sold only as primary residences.

But the latest measure has been criticised for treating second home owners as cash cows when they already bring money to the area.

The new levy, which will come into effect from next year, has been approved by members of King's Lynn and West Norfolk Council

Residents of desirable seaside locations in the area such as Burnham Market and Brancaster have already voted to curb soaring numbers of holiday homes by voting in referendums for measures including new build homes being sold only as primary residences

But the latest measure has been criticised for treating second home owners as cash cows when they already bring money to the area

Around £6.5 million will be raised by the extra council tax in West Norfolk – but the council will receive just £440,000, less than seven per cent of the money

Burnham Market is a charming village near the north coast of Norfolk

Your browser does not support iframes.

The extra funds will also disappear into council coffers, with no guarantee they will be used to tackle the problem of affordable housing in the well-to-do holiday hotspots.

Around £6.5 million will be raised by the extra council tax in West Norfolk – but the council will receive just £440,000, less than seven per cent of the money.

More than three-quarters will go to the county council – which has more than £800 million of debt - with the rest going to other precepting authorities such as parish councils and police.

Tory members spoke against the scheme at the full council meeting of Independently-run West Norfolk Council where it was eventually approved.

Group leader Stuart Dark warned it would 'hurt the little guy' who may have inherited a second home and called for exceptions to the rules.

'We shouldn't apply it to the nth degree,' he said.

Conservative colleague Samantha Sandell, who represents Burnham Market, said second home owners already contributed to the local economy and provided jobs.

She also warned against claims the extra tax would ease the housing crisis as owners sold up because people with traditional jobs like fishing had already left.

'Who will want to live in these Norfolk villages, to do what exactly? These jobs have gone,' she added.

Businesses and traders in the region have previously warned their incomes will be devastated if wealthy 'townies' move away.

More than three-quarters will go to the county council – which has more than £800 million of debt - with the rest going to other precepting authorities such as parish councils and police

Tory members spoke against the scheme at the full council meeting of Independently-run West Norfolk Council where it was eventually approved

Group leader Stuart Dark warned it would 'hurt the little guy' who may have inherited a second home and called for exceptions to the rules. Conservative colleague Samantha Sandell, who represents Burnham Market, said second home owners already contributed to the local economy and provided jobs

Other critics have pointed out holiday home owners could convert their investments into holiday lets, which incur business rates instead of council tax.

But councillors in support of the plans argued villages had been 'decimated' by the holiday homes market, with more than half of dwellings used part-time in some areas.

Locals were 'struggling to survive' as they were unable to afford to live nearby, they added.

Council leader Terry Parrish told the meeting he would attempt to negotiate a larger share of the revenue generated by the new tax.

But Norfolk County Council leader Andrew Jamieson, who is also a West Norfolk Council member, indicated this was likely to fall on deaf ears.

Businesses and traders in the region have previously warned their incomes will be devastated if wealthy 'townies' move away

Other critics have pointed out holiday home owners could convert their investments into holiday lets, which incur business rates instead of council tax

But councillors in support of the plans argued villages had been 'decimated' by the holiday homes market, with more than half of dwellings used part-time in some areas

A Band D second home in Burnham Market would see council tax rise from the current £2,110.18 to £4,220.36 under the new system. Band H properties already paying £4,220.36 would be taxed £8,440.72.

The discretionary council tax premium of up to 100 per cent on second homes was included in the Government's Levelling Up and Regeneration Bill, published in May 2022.

But other councils which have approved or indicated they will introduce the levy have admitted the funds will not be ring-fenced for affordable housing – or even targeted at the areas affected by second homes.

Dorset Council is planning to allocate the £10 million it expects to make from its scheme to its 'overall budget'.

North Yorkshire Council, which is in line to receive more than £14 million, said the money would 'provide a multi-million pound boost to finance key council priorities'.

A Band D second home in Burnham Market would see council tax rise from the current £2,110.18 to £4,220.36 under the new system. Band H properties already paying £4,220.36 would be taxed £8,440.72

The discretionary council tax premium of up to 100 per cent on second homes was included in the Government's Levelling Up and Regeneration Bill, published in May 2022

But other councils which have approved or indicated they will introduce the levy have admitted the funds will not be ring-fenced for affordable housing – or even targeted at the areas affected by second homes

Dorset Council is planning to allocate the £10 million it expects to make from its scheme to its 'overall budget'. North Yorkshire Council, which is in line to receive more than £14 million, said the money would 'provide a multi-million pound boost to finance key council priorities'

Local authorities must confirm their decision to impose the levy at least one year before the beginning of the financial year in which it will be applied

The Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities said: 'Homes which are periodically occupied can lead to local people being locked out of the housing marking in some areas of the country.

'We are providing powers to councils to charge a discretionary council tax premium of up to 100 per cent for these homes.

'It will be for local leaders who know their communities best to decide on whether to apply a premium, at what level, and how to spend any funds used.'

Councils can 'spend funds how they see fit', it added.

Local authorities must confirm their decision to impose the levy at least one year before the beginning of the financial year in which it will be applied.

The earliest any council can impose the premium is April 1, 2025.