Following coach's Olly Murs and Anne-Marie being axed from The Voice UK in a huge show 'refresh' ITV fans have been left questioning who will join Tom Jones and Will.I.Am in the spinning red chairs in the 2024 series.

It comes after American country music star LeAnn Rimes is reportedly in the running to take over from one of the coaches.

However, the second chair is reportedly going to be swapped for a sofa as it will be filled by a famous duo.

A source told The Sun: 'This marks an exciting new change for the show that will shake up the format and keep it fresh as it moves into a new era.

'Having a famous duo is an exciting new concept which means the coaches will be able to support more groups who audition.

ITV fans have been left questioning who will join Tom Jones and Will.I.Am in the spinning red chairs in the 2024 series

Coach's Olly Murs and Anne-Marie were axed from The Voice UK in a huge show 'refresh'

'Bosses are talking to a number of combos including stars who have performed together, are mates, and also producer/talent combos.

'The industry is broader than it has ever been and execs want the coaches to reflect that — the chart isn't just pop, rock and RnB any more. Everything is still all to play for to ensure The Voice gets the strongest line-up possible.'

The shock dumping comes after Olly, 39, hit out at The Voice after being dropped admitting he was 'gutted.'

He said: 'I got the call last week to say I won't be back on the show, and it's a bit of a shock, to be honest. I didn't really expect that to come.'

Opening up about the decision, he continued: 'But I don't want to sit here like other artists might, and shine and gloss this up and say, "It was my decision." I don't want to do that.

'I don't want to bulls**t my fans or bulls**t people who watch the show, and say, 'Oh, it was an amicable decision to leave — I've got lots of things on next year, I can't do it any more. No.'

Olly's axing comes six years after he joined the show.

But it looks like Olly won't be off telly screens for long as he could be replacing Rita Ora, 32, on The Masked Singer who is reportedly taking a step back from the show.

The singer who shot to fame in 2009 on The X Factor, would be joining Davina McCall, Jonathan Ross and comedian Mo Gilligan on the next series.

The one spinning red chair is reportedly going to be swapped for a sofa as it will be filled by a famous duo