As Prince Harry hurtled down the track on the bobsled, Meghan Markle wasn't the only person watching on proudly.

Beth Herlihy, a former Hollyoaks Later actress who was hired by Kensington Palace in 2016 has followed the Sussexes across the pond after Megxit and has been by their side at several events ever since.

The loyal supporter, 37 - and 'programme co-ordinator' to the Duke and Duchess of Sussex from 2018 to 2020 - once played a stripper called Honey in a racy spin-off from the Channel 4 soap, under her stage name Bethan Coundley.

She also took part in several modelling shoots, including one in 2012 when she posed in a PVC body suit.

Since 2020, Beth has been a partner at Herlihy Loughran, which describes itself as 'an advisory partnership that links influential people and organisations to good causes'.

Beth Herlihy, a former Hollyoaks Later actress who was hired by Kensington Palace in 2016 has followed the Sussexes across the pond after Megxit and has been by their side at several events ever since

For the past two years, she has also worked s an Expert Advisor on the Business Development sub-committee at Solace, a women's aid charity.

In 2016, the actress turned businesswoman was hired as an events manager with the Royal Foundation, the joint charitable vehicle for the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and the Sussexes.

After the Sussexes split from the foundation in 2018, Beth remained with Harry, 38, and Meghan, 42, but is not thought to have had a significant role in the move to North America.

It was in 2020 revealed that as well as Beth, they brought on ex-palace employee Clara Loughran on a freelance basis to work on charity projects in the UK.

The pair both lost their jobs in March of that year when Harry and Meghan moved to North America.

Clara, who is married to Harry’s ex-assistant communications secretary, Nick Loughran, had worked for the prince since 2015, organising his official engagements and charitable initiatives. She was made a Member of the Royal Victorian Order – an honour given to those who have served the monarchy with dedication in a personal capacity – by the Queen, on Harry’s recommendation.

She and Beth are co-founders of Herlihy Loughran - and sources claimed that Harry and Meghan were among their first clients.

And it would seem that Beth has remained loyal to the Sussexes amid the couple's recent fallouts with the Royal Family.

The loyal friend, 37 - and 'programme co-ordinator' to the Duke and Duchess of Sussex from 2018 to 2020, once played a stripper called Honey in a racy spin-off from the Channel 4 soap, under her stage name Bethan Coundley

In September, she was seen pictured with the Prince at the Invictus Games in Dusseldorf, Germany

The pair chatted in the stands as they watched a wheelchair basketball match between Team UK and Ukraine in Dusseldorf

Beth pictured during day three of the Invictus Games 2023 at the Merkur Spiel-Arena in Dusseldorf

In September, she was seen talking with the Prince at the Invictus Games in Germany.

The pair chatted in the stands as they watched a wheelchair basketball match between Team UK and Ukraine in Dusseldorf.

And in December, it was reported that, according to Archewell's income tax form for 2022, Herlihy Loughran was paid $127,807 (£100,481).

Meanwhile, yesterday Beth was among the supporters watching on as Prince Harry found a thrilling way to put some distance between himself and the scandal surrounding his and Meghan's Sussex family rebrand - when he enjoyed a thrill-filled ride around a skeleton bobsled track in Whistler, Canada.

Beth wrapped up warm in a black coat with a fur-lined hood and donned a £95 white beanie from YAITTE. To warm up even more, she opted for black leather gloves.

Prince Harry proved himself quite the thrill-seeker yesterday when he attempted a run around a skeleton bobsled track - achieving an impressive top speed of 61 miles-per-hour

The Duke of Sussex achieved an impressive top speed of 61 miles-per-hour during his daring adventure - a feat that left even his wife Meghan voicing her awe, telling fellow onlookers that she was 'impressed' with her husband's skills.

While Meghan did not take part in the bobsledding fun at the Whistler Sliding Center in British Columbia, she was able to enjoy every aspect of her husband's ride when he got off the sled - before enthusiastically re-enacting his thrill ride to his wife and Invictus volunteers after getting off.

The Duchess of Sussex - who has joined her husband on a multi-day trip to Canada in honor of the one-year countdown to the 2025 Invictus Games - also served as her husband's personal photographer - beaming with pride as she held up her phone to snap images and clips as he whizzed to the end of the track.

But Meghan - who accessorised her phone with a $250 case from Bottega Veneta - was not the only videographer on hand to capture every moment of the Duke's whistle-top trip around the bobsled track.

While Meghan did not take part in the bobsledding fun, she was able to enjoy every aspect of her husband's ride when he got off the sled and re-enacted the ride for her

When asked by an onlooker whether she planned to join her husband in trying out the daring sport, Meghan laughingly yelled back, 'I can't!'

The Duke of Sussex achieved an impressive top speed of 61 miles-per-hour during his daring adventure - a feat that left even his wife Meghan voicing her awe

As well as a team of photographers and onlookers who have captured the couple's every move, they have also been followed closely by a camera crew from Good Morning America, who are thought to be working on a segment all about the pair's Invictus Games countdown.

Helming the GMA crew is host Will Reeve, son of the Superman actor Christopher Reeve, who was seen joining the Sussexes during their events on Wednesday - with DailyMail.com revealing exclusive images of the trio chatting together.

ABC - the network that broadcasts GMA - has yet to confirm exactly what the on-air segment will include, however, the crew was closely following the Sussexes today, interviewing Harry for ten minutes after his first bobsledding adventure, before he set off for a second go around the track.

When asked by an onlooker whether she planned to join her husband in trying out the daring sport, Meghan laughingly yelled back, 'I can't!'

However, she watched on with pride as her husband completed his two runs - although she took some time to warm up in the back of the couple's Ford Expedition SUV while Harry took some time out from the track to chat with the GMA crew.