She’s had her share of troubles and Heather Locklear proved she is only too happy to help someone else down on their luck.

The Melrose Place alum rolled down her window and handed a few banknotes over as she and fiancé Chris Heisser were driving in her Los Angeles neighborhood this week to help a panhandler who was begging for money.

She also gave him a few supportive words as the couple stopped at traffic lights.

It may have been his neon pink sign with the words ‘Only God will save his people,’ scrawled on it in capital letters that attracted the actress.

Makeup-free and looking healthy and trim Heather was dressed for comfort in a soft pink lounge suit and matching beanie and carrying a Louis Vuitton purse

Heather hands the panhandler the cash as her fiancé Chris Heisser stopped at a traffic light in Thousand Oaks, California

She had a few words of comfort for the guy as she passed him the money

Locklear and Heisser, both 62, were on their way home after visiting friends on Tuesday when they made the unscheduled stop to help.

Makeup-free and looking healthy and trim Heather was dressed for comfort in a soft pink lounge suit and matching beanie and carrying a Louis Vuitton purse.

The stop at traffic lights in Thousand Oaks was the first time in more than six months that the former high-school sweethearts had been seen out together.

Heather, who has admitted her problems with alcohol and pills has been to rehab at least 20 times over the years and so recognizes when someone might need a little help.

She had been doing better since reconnecting with former motocross racer Heisser. The couple got engaged just as Covid pandemic lockdown started in April 2020.

But concern for Heather – who also starred in the TV classics Dynasty and TJ Hooker – was raised last July when, looking disheveled, she was spotted climbing on a narrow ledge of a Malibu office building, wearing flipflops and having to cling on to a pillar for support.

Video showed her looking bewildered as she sat at the top of the steps reading from her personal journal and talking to herself.

At one point she was seen pointing angrily at something written in the diary and gesticulating wildly before pushing it firmly back into her purse.

She sat for a lengthy period of self-reflection at the top of the stairs before running over to Heisser, who was waiting for her in their car.

Heather has had her own troubles with some 20 stints ini rehab so she has sympathy for anyone down on their luck

Locklear and Heisser, both 62, were high school sweethearts but lost touch for 40 years during which time she married rockers Tommy Lee and Richie Sambora

The panhandler carried a large neon pink sign reading 'Only God will save his people'

A source confirmed to DailyMail.com that she had relapsed and was back drinking her favorite tequila and

But since that alarming incident Heather has been seen looking healthy – and that is how she appeared when she handed over the cash to the homeless man.

Locklear and Heisser, also 62, first dated in the late 1970s when they were both students at Newbury Park High School.

But they lost contact for 40 years and Heather went on to marry rockers Tommy Lee from 1986-1993 and Richie Sambora from 1994-2007, with whom she has a daughter, Ava, now 26.

Ava got engaged to Tyler Farrar, her boyfriend of four years, last weekend.

It's been the steadfast support of her lover and daughter that helped Heather get over her problems that were first reported after she was stopped for suspected DUI shortly after her split from Bon Jovi guitarist Sambora.

Although tests confirmed her blood alcohol level was under the legal limit, authorities believed that prescription medication she was taking for her anxiety and depression had caused her erratic driving.

The actress displayed erratic behavior and was seen walking along a ledge and talking to herself while appearing in distress during a visit to an office building last summer

The Melrose Place alum opted to keep fiancé Chris Heisser waiting in his car and was seen balancing herself along the edge of the building last year

Heather has had the support of fiancé Heisser and her daughter Avas, 26, who got engaged last weekend to boyfriend of four years Tyler Farrar

Heather first found the spotlight with her role as Sammy Jo Carrington on the '80s soap Dynasty (left). The following decade she was starring as Amanda in Melrose Place

Over the next decade, police were called to Heather's home on multiple occasions, and she would rack up eight different charges after allegedly attacking law enforcement officials who were trying to calm her down.

She ultimately pleaded no contest to reckless driving and was sentenced to three years’ probation.

In February 2018, she was arrested for domestic violence and battery against a police officer after she allegedly kicked three law enforcement officials while they were trying to calm her down during an argument between her and Heisser.

Then in April the following year she crashed her Porsche and after being convicted of nine misdemeanors the court ordered her to rehab.

Locklear was a TV staple during the 1980s and 90s. She first hit it big as Sammy Jo, Blake Carrington's daughter-in-law on Dynasty. She then went on to play Officer Stacy Sheridan on the police drama T.J. Hooker before she landed her signature role as manipulative Amanda Woodward on Melrose Place.

She was later brought in to the sitcom Spin City as the campaign manager for Barry Bostwick's New York Mayor character as he decided to run for Senator.

She was nominated for six Golden Globes – four for Melrose Place and two for Spin City – without winning any.