She is known for setting pulses racing on OnlyFans.

Yet Lottie Moss took her sexy looks from the tripod to the catwalk on Friday as she attended the Sinead O'Dwyer AW24 show during London Fashion Week.

The half-sister of Kate Moss put on a jaw-dropping display as she wowed at the event, held at The BFC NEWGEN Show Space, in a bondage-inspired getup.

She wore a black lace-up ensemble comprising a wraparound detail on the legs and a skin-tight bustier with a cleavage boosting detail.

Lottie pulled her best pout for the cameras before sauntering down the runway in front of the great and good of the UK fashion scene.

Lottie Moss took her sexy looks from the tripod to the catwalk on Friday as she attended the Sinead O'Dwyer AW24 show during London Fashion Week

The half-sister of Kate Moss put on a jaw-dropping display as she wowed at the event, held at The BFC NEWGEN Show Space, in a bondage-inspired getup

She wore a black lace-up ensemble comprising a wraparound detail on the legs and a skin-tight bustier with a cleavage boosting detail

Lottie's sizzling lace-up tights coordinated with the intricate top to the look while she dressed things down in a pair of low heels.

She went for barely-there make-up with her icy blonde hair slicked back behind her ears, while her face tattoo stood out on her alabaster complexion.

The Irish designer was showcasing her daring designs at the event, with a number of models showing off their skin in scanty looks.

Strictly star Bobby Brazier was also in attendance looking dashing in a tight black tee while model and TikToker Delphi Primrose showed off her taut abs.

Aside from her modelling work, last week Lottie was seen on the set of her debut movie April X in Romania

The thriller is about twins Bax (Connor Storrie) and Lottie's character April. When April goes missing, Bax searches every dark corner of the post Soviet cityscape trying to find her, ultimately descending into madness.

Lottie, whose exes include Love Island's Adam Collard and Made In Chelsea's Alex Mytton, landed in Romania late last month to start filming.

This film marks Lottie's movie debut, a significant step in her evolving career, especially as she takes a hiatus from OnlyFans to focus on acting.

Lottie pulled her best pout for the cameras before sauntering down the runway in front of the great and good of the UK fashion scene

Lottie's sizzling lace-up tights coordinated with the intricate top to the look while she dressed things down in a pair of low heels

Her transition into the film industry follows a period of personal challenges, including addressing mental health issues, signaling a new chapter in her journey of personal and professional growth.

Lottie recently broke down in tears as she candidly spoke to her fans about her anxiety struggles in a TikTok video.

The Celebs Go Dating star, who started modelling at age 16 for Teen Vogue, discussed how being a model in her teens made her succumb to drugs and alcohol because of the industry she worked in.

The model admitted the reason she got a face tattoo and started an OnlyFans page was to 'rebel so hard away from an industry that made her sad all the time'.

The Irish designer was showcasing her daring designs at the event, with a number of models showing off their skin in scanty looks

She looked incredible in her sexy ensemble

Aside from her modelling work, last week Lottie was seen on the set of her debut movie April X in Romania

The thriller is about twins Bax (Connor Storrie) and Lottie's character April. When April goes missing, Bax searches every dark corner of the post Soviet cityscape trying to find her, ultimately descending into madness

Strictly star Bobby Brazier was also in attendance looking dashing in a tight black tee

Bobby - the son of Jeff Brazier and the late Jade Goody - wore tight jeans with his look

Victoria Brown looked chic in a pale blue midi dress and cropped jacket

The fashion model's look featured silver embellishments

Model and TikToker Delphi Primrose showed off her taut abs