Janice Dickinson glammed up to attend the opening night party for the LA Art Show, which took place at Los Angeles Convention Center on Wednesday - just two days before her 69th birthday.

The self-proclaimed 'World's First Supermodel' - who graced the cover of Vogue 37 times - frequently posts vintage footage from her seventies and eighties hey-day.

Janice dressed her slim 5ft9in figure in a sparkly grey-knit turtleneck sweater over white pants, which were split up the ankle, and black ballet flats.

Dickinson - who accessorized with hoop earrings - wore her waist-length brunette locks down for the art soirée hosted by Puppy Love actress Lucy Hale.

The Brooklyn-born, Florida-raised catwalker was introduced to a new Netflix-based audience last October when the streaming giant aired the first season of E! reality show Botched featuring her second breast implant surgery.

Janice Dickinson glammed up to attend the opening night party for the LA Art Show, which took place at Los Angeles Convention Center on Wednesday - just two days before her 69th birthday

The self-proclaimed 'World's First Supermodel' - who graced the cover of Vogue 37 times - frequently posts vintage footage from her seventies and eighties hey-day

Janice has also undergone facelifts, a tummy tuck, neck lift, liposuction, and Botox in her quest for ever-lasting youthful beauty.

And last April, Dickinson competed on ITV reality show I'm A Celebrity... South Africa, but she wound up withdrawing on the May 8th episode due to a nasty head injury.

The Barbee Rehab actress - who boasts 808K social media followers - currently judges models' runway walks on TikTok.

'Ever since I was [a judge] on America's Next Top Model with Tyra Banks, they've had me on this judging position. And the crowd out there in the universe doesn't want to let me go. They want me to judge their walk,' Janice told KTLA 5 last December.

'So I've got thousands of little girls sending me [videos of themselves] walking on the runway, tripping on the runway, rolling off the runway. It's hard for me to just come out and say, "You know this is a 2. You need to go back and practice this stuff." or "It's a 10, 10, 10! I found Kate Moss again, yay!"'

Dickinson - who gets 1,764 monthly listeners on Spotify - released her six-track debut EP I Coined It on December 31 for the underground gay club circuit.

On December 16, the Get Into It singer released a music video for the track Floor, which was directed by Paizley Zerr.

On the personal front, Janice is married to fourth husband - Robert 'Rocky' Gerner - who surrendered his medical license in 2016 for alleged sexual misconduct with two patients, according to TMZ.

Janice dressed her slim 5ft9in figure in a sparkly grey-knit turtleneck sweater over white pants, which were split up the ankle, and black ballet flats

Dickinson - who accessorized with hoop earrings - wore her waist-length brunette locks down for the art soirée hosted by Puppy Love actress Lucy Hale

The Brooklyn-born, Florida-raised catwalker was introduced to a new Netflix-based audience last October when the streaming giant aired the first season of E! reality show Botched featuring her second breast implant surgery

Janice has also undergone facelifts, a tummy tuck, neck lift, liposuction, and Botox in her quest for ever-lasting youthful beauty

And last April, Dickinson competed on ITV reality show I'm A Celebrity... South Africa, but she wound up withdrawing on the May 8th episode due to a nasty head injury

The Barbee Rehab actress - who boasts 808K social media followers - currently judges models' runway walks on TikTok (pictured Wednesday)

Janice told KTLA 5 last December: 'Ever since I was [a judge] on America's Next Top Model with Tyra Banks, they've had me on this judging position. And the crowd out there in the universe doesn't want to let me go. They want me to judge their walk. So I've got thousands of little girls sending me [videos of themselves] walking on the runway'

Dickinson - who gets 1,764 monthly listeners on Spotify - released her six-track debut EP I Coined It on December 31 for the underground gay club circuit

On December 16, the Get Into It singer released a music video for the track Floor, which was directed by Paizley Zerr

On the personal front, Janice and fourth husband - Robert 'Rocky' Gerner (R, pictured October 20) - celebrated their seventh wedding anniversary on December 10

Dickinson mothered two children - Nathan, 36; and Savannah, nearly 30 (pictured in 2019) - with ex-husband #2 Simon Fields and ex-boyfriend Michael Birnbaum

Dickinson and the 77-year-old ex-psychiatrist - whom she met at the Chateau Marmont in 2012 - celebrated their seventh wedding anniversary on December 10.

On February 23, the Bill Cosby accuser will celebrate the 30th birthday of her daughter - Platonic script coordinator Savannah Rodin Dickinson - with ex-boyfriend Michael Birnbaum.

Janice is also mother to 36-year-old son - film/TV producer Nathan Ray Michael Fields - from her six-year marriage to ex-husband #2 Simon Fields, which ended in 1993.