Aston Martin has launched its next generation Vantage two-seater 202mph sports car – its fastest ever with more power and punch.

And it also reverts to a more muscular and traditional back to the future Aston Martin 'face' after the previous version divided opinion as markedly as Marmite,

But it remains 'a hardcore sports car at heart,' says the British supercar firm.

The fastest Vantage yet: Aston Martin has revealed its new Vantage sports car. It can reach 202mph - that's a higher top speed than any other version to carry the iconic nameplate

The company based at Gaydon in Warwickshire dubbed the Vantage of one of a trio of three new 'jewels in the crown', as it also showcased the Vantage GT3 endurance racer and debuted the 2024 season's AMR24 F1 machine.

The Formula One team loaned the services of two-time driver's champion Fernando Alonso to promote the new sports car in a flashy new clip showing how this is a vehicle that's claimed to have been developed around drivers.

Aston Martin said their new Vantage road-car is the fastest and most driver-focussed in the Vantage nameplate's 74-year history, is 'engineered for real drivers' and 'the definitive front-engined rear-wheel drive sports car.'

It will need to be as a rival to Porsche's enduring 911.

On sale now and with first deliveries from spring, prices start from £165,000.

But with a huge array of extras and bespoke options to choose from, it is unlikely any well-heeled customers will get much change from £200,000 – with some spending vastly more to personalise their new purchase.

The base price is a significant uplift on the £120,900 asking price when the current outgoing version was launched in November 2017.

Aston Martin said their new Vantage road-car is the fastest and most driver-focussed in the Vantage nameplate's 74-year history, is 'engineered for real drivers' and 'the definitive front-engined rear-wheel drive sports car.'

On sale now and with first deliveries from spring, prices start from £165,000. But with a huge array of extras and bespoke options to choose from, it is unlikely any well-heeled customers will get much change from £200,000 – with some spending vastly more to personalise their new purchase

The base price is a significant uplift on the £120,900 asking price when the current outgoing version was launched in November 2017

Powered by a 665 horsepower 4.0-litre V8 twin-turbo petrol engine it accelerates from rest to 0-60mph in just 3.4 seconds (0-62mph in 3.5 seconds) up to a top speed of 202mph

Visually, after the previous Vantage marked a controversial change in look, the new generation also marks a return to more classic Aston Martin styling.

Will it fit in my garage? 2024 Aston Martin Vantage Price: from £165,000On sale: Now First deliveries: spring 2024 Length: 4,495mm Width (with mirrors): 2,124mm Height: 1,275mm Wheelbase: 2,705mm Ground clearance: 94mm Weight: 1,605kg Engine: 4.0-litre V8 twin turbo Power: 665hp (up 130hp on previous generation) Gears: Rear-mounted 8-speed automatic transmission (with carbon fibre prop shaft) Acceleration (0-62mph): 3.5 seconds Top speed: 202mph Fuel economy: TBC (expect circa 24mpg) Wheels: 21-inch, bespoke Michelin Pilot Sport 5 AML (plus Winter tyre option) Brakes: steel or carbon ceramic Turning circle: 12 metres Fuel tank: 78 litres Boot volume: 346 litres (with load divider and parcel shelf removed) - 235 litres (with load divider and parcel shelf in place) <!- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/money/moneycars/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

It is 30mm wider with a more muscular stance and a completely redesigned front end with a veined grille that is 38 per cent larger to boost cooling air intake.

It also marks a return of the signature Aston Martin side-strake.

Styling elements of the One-77 supercar have been included. There's a wider rear bumper with side vents and larger diameter quad exhaust tailpipes to make it 'look as dramatic from the rear as it does from the front.'

Powered by a 665 horsepower 4.0-litre V8 twin-turbo petrol engine it accelerates from rest to 0-60mph in just 3.4 seconds (0-62mph in 3.5 seconds) up to a top speed of 202mph.

The power output is up by 155hp, or nearly a third, on the equivalent outgoing 510hp Vantage, and an increase of 130hp or a fifth on the Vantage F1 edition's 535hp). That helps shave a second off the existing car's acceleration, while adding 7mph to the top speed.

The engine is linked to a rear-mounted eight-speed automatic transmission (with carbon fibre prop shaft) with manual gear-changes possible via paddle shift.

Other features include frameless door mirrors, 'presenting' pop-out door handles, and supple, aromatic Bridge of Weir hides.

Aston said the new V8 Vantage will provide 'breathtaking power, razor sharp handling and the perfect balance of a finely tuned front-engine, rear-wheel drive chassis,' promising 'maximum thrills with maximum confidence'.

Old school purists may mourn, but there will be no fire-breathing V12 version of the new Vantage – as Aston bade a last farewell to that option when it launched its end of an era V12 Vantage two years ago, noting at the time: 'With production of the V12 Vantage strictly limited to 333 examples globally, this final edition celebrates the end of an epic era in fitting style'.

Nor will there be a manual stick-shift gearbox version.

Aston Martin said of the new Vantage: 'The quintessential Aston Martin sports car and the most driver focused and fastest Vantage in the famous nameplate's 74-year history, it is an authentic, unadulterated celebration of pure performance, engineered to deliver 'maximum thrills with maximum confidence' in keeping with 'the most dynamic period in Aston Martin's 111 year history.'

The company said the new Vantage follows the successful introduction last year of the DB12 Coupe and Volante and further strengthens Aston Martin's next generation of sports cars, noting: 'Vantage reaffirms the brands position in the ultra-luxury, performance sports car market alongside its leading roles in the ultra-luxury sporting GT, SUV and hypercar arenas, and the highest echelons of world championship motorsport.'

Aston said the new V8 Vantage will provide 'breathtaking power, razor sharp handling and the perfect balance of a finely tuned front-engine, rear-wheel drive chassis,' promising 'maximum thrills with maximum confidence'

The power output is up by 155hp, or nearly a third, on the equivalent outgoing 510hp Vantage, and an increase of 130hp or a fifth on the Vantage F1 edition's 535hp). That helps shave a second off the existing car's acceleration, while adding 7mph to the top speed

'Trio of jewels in the crown': The new Aston Martin Vantage (left) has been unveiled alongside the GT endurance racing version (right) and the brand's new F1 machine to campaign the 2024 season (centre)

Aston Martin chief executive Amedeo Felisa said: 'As we enter a period of pivotal change in the world of high-performance cars it is essential to remain true to those qualities upon which a legendary marque has been built.

'Any car bearing the Vantage name has much to live-up to, which is why this newest model makes an unwavering commitment to high-performance in its purest and most explicit form.'

He said: 'Class-leading power and speed establish its credentials, but it is through expert application of the latest technologies to the Vantage's perfectly balanced front-engine rear-drive chassis that we have created a sports car with addictive capability. Together with assertive styling, all-new interior and state-of-the-art infotainment, Vantage is world-class in every respect'.

The engine is linked to a rear-mounted eight-speed automatic transmission (with carbon fibre prop shaft) with manual gear-changes possible via paddle shift

While other car makers are moving towards uncluttered cabins, Aston Martin's new Vantage has a steering wheel and centre console awash with buttons and switches

Other features include frameless door mirrors, 'presenting' pop-out door handles, and supple, aromatic Bridge of Weir hides