Struggling pet owners are relying on animal food banks to feed their animals amid the cost-of-living crisis.

In the last two years, the price of pet food has increased by as much as 58 per cent.

The RSPCA has said eight in 10 people find it hard to pay for their pets.

The charity currently gives pet supplies to 160 regular food banks.

In the last two years, the price of pet food has increased by as much as 58 per cent

Its pet foodbank coordinator Alison Fletcher said: 'As animal lovers ourselves, we know how important it is to keep owners with their pets wherever possible.

'Keeping them together during difficult times benefits both the owners and the animals' wellbeing and also helps to tackle some of the strain on animal rescue centres.'

The Blue Cross has already set up six dedicated pet foodbanks and scores more are run independently.

One, in Waltham Forest, East London, has helped almost 400 animals and their owners in just a year.

It was set up by a group of friends including Shelagh Savage, 70.

Ms Savage told the Sunday Mirror: 'We all run missing pet groups so were aware of the need for people to get help to keep their animals. So many pets were being surrendered because people can't afford them.'

The RSPCA has said eight in 10 people find it hard to pay for their pets. The charity currently gives pet supplies to 160 regular food banks

The volunteers, who operate out of Tesco in Highams Park, also provide accessories such as leads, beds and toys.

Among those using the service is Alex Sarney, 38, who said she has struggled to feed her dog Aiya since she was diagnosed with a brain tumour in May.

Ms Sarney said: 'I haven't had to think about giving up Aiya and this has just alleviated so much stress, particularly with the cost of living.

'They're absolutely brilliant so many people are benefiting from it. It's done so sensitively so there is no shame in coming.'

People can be referred to the service by the council, charity or foodbanks.

Anne Hirst, who has volunteered in animal rescue for almost 20 years, set up a pet foodbank in York last year.

The charity Blue Cross has pet foodbank donation stations in 450 Pets at Home stores across the country.