Taylor Swift has shared a sweet message to Aussie fans after performing three sold out concerts as part of her Eras Tour at the Melbourne Cricket Ground over the weekend.

The pop superstar, 34, posted several photos from her Australian tour to Instagram on Monday and thanked fans for the memories.

'Melbourne, what do I even say to you after over 288,000 of you came and danced with us in the last 3 nights ??! That was unforgettable,' she wrote.

'You were on another LEVEL. Thank you for the memories. I'll revisit the ones from this weekend often.'

Swift also sent local fans wild by declaring, 'Melbourne, you're the love of my life' during her show on Sunday night.

Taylor Swift has shared a heartfelt personal message to her Melbourne fans after performing for almost 300K people: 'That was unforgettable'

She told the crowd: 'Some stadium girl math for you … 96,000 people the first night, 96,000 people the second night. 96,000 people tonight.'

'Those are all the biggest shows I've ever played on a tour and you did it three times,' she added.

'The math is that it's 288,000 people in three nights, Melbourne. You are the love of my life.'

Melbourne returned the love by giving Swift a minute-long ovation.

'That's unforgettable for me, I'll never forget it,' declared an emotional Swift.

The pop superstar, 34, posted several photos from her Australian tour to Instagram on Monday and thanked fans for the memories

Swift treated Melbourne fans to an extra special surprise song in the form of a mashup of her tracks Getaway Car, The Other Side of the Door and August, leading her International fans to vent on social media.

'WHAT POSSESSED HER TO DO THIS?' exclaimed one fan on Twitter.

'Does Taylor owe Australia money or something wtf is this,' vented another.

Another shared a meme of a stone-faced NFL player during a tickertape parade, along with the caption, 'the rest of the world watching Melbourne getting getaway car x august x the other side of the door mashup'.

Swift will hit Sydney this weekend, with the pop star set to perform at four shows from Friday, February 23 to Monday February 26.