Sophie Piper did not meet her famous older sister Rochelle properly for the first time until she was 18.

The Love Island star, 24, and her This Morning presenter sister, 34, grew up separately and ended up connecting through fellow Love Islander Kem Cetinay.

Rochelle's father Mark Piper left her and her mother Roz Wiseman when the star was just three years old.

He went on to have three more children, Sophie, Lili and Jake, with his new partner.

By pure coincidence, Kem went to school with Lili and appraoched Rochelle at an event after he found fame on Love Island.

Sophie Piper did not meet her famous older sister Rochelle properly for the first time until she was 18

The Love Island star, 24, (pictured) and her This Morning presenter sister, 34, grew up separately and ended up connecting through fellow Love Islander Kem Cetinay

Rochelle recalled the meeting during an appearance on Giovanna Fletcher's Happy Mum Happy Baby podcast.

She said: 'I've never told anyone this before. Two years ago, I was at our management's Christmas party and Love Island's Kem was there.

'He was chatting away and said, 'I got to talk to you... as soon as I became a celeb, I promised my friend Lili that I would talk to you as she's your sister on your dad's side.'

'I knew of her and met up with her when I was five, but it was so complicated as they were a lot younger and my dad wasn't involved.'

Sophie previously spoke to MailOnline about getting back in touch with Rochelle, saying: 'There was a period where we weren't in contact.

'It was weird growing up not knowing Rochelle but since we have spoken we speak every day so it is nice all of us being in each other's lives now.

'My middle sister Lili went to school with Kem so that's how we know him. Obviously he was at the same school as me. It's funny how it's all linked together.'

Sophie is currently taking part in Love Island All Stars where she has coupled up with series one contestant Joshua Ritchie.

The Love Island star and her This Morning presenter sister grew up separately and ended up connecting through fellow Love Islander Kem Cetinay

Rochelle's father Mark Piper left her and her mother Roz Wiseman when the star was just three years old. He went on to have three more children, Sophie, Lili and Jake, with his new partner

Speaking about her sister's stint in the villa, Rochelle said: '[She] brought fun and flirtiness to series six, and now she's returning to the Villa to find the one.'

Love Island All Stars viewers applauded Joshua during Tuesday's episode for his hilarious quips and savage take downs of his fellow Islanders, with many fans calling for him and Sophie Piper to win the show.

Josh, 29, reached the end of his tether with Georgia Harrison after she tore into him after he labelled her and Anton Danyluk, 28, the most game-playing couple in the villa.

The Islanders were tasked with trying to figure out which couple were most likely to be voted for a particular category, according to the public.

With nominations for the most argumentative couple and the hottest, things took a sour turn when Joshua said to put Georgia H, 29, and Anton as the biggest game-players in the villa.

He said: 'Possibly could be you two? Every time somebody's come in for G, she's dropped you and then she's gone back to you…'

Love Island viewers applauded Joshua Ritchie on Tuesday for his hilarious quips and savage take downs of his fellow Islanders, with many fans calling for him and Sophie Piper to win

The Islanders were tasked with trying to figure out which couple were most likely to be voted for a particular category, according to the public (Joshua and his partner Sophie Piper pictured)

Furious, Georgia hit back: 'I've never once dropped him for anyone and I've always supported you. And I've been hearing you've made a few comments about me behind my back Josh and I'm not having it…

'I'm sure I'm not the only couple you are trying to put a negative spin on either'.

Josh responded: 'Go on then, who?', leaving the Islanders in silence.

Elsewhere, when asked who they thought the public had voted as the hottest couple, the Islanders put Molly Smith, 29, and Tom Clare, 24, in first place, with Arabella Chi, 32, and Adam Maxted, 31, in second place.

They predicted Georgia Steel, 25, and Toby Aromolaran, 24, would have been placed third by the public.

Josh and his partner Sophie, 24, opened an envelope to reveal that they had been voted by the public as the hottest couple, prompting Josh to sarcastically scream: 'YES!'

He shouted: 'I knew I was f**king sick, man!'

Viewers took to social media after watching Josh's antics, with many insisting his humour and honesty should mean he and Sophie win the series.

Josh, 29, reached the end of his tether with Georgia Harrison after she tore into him after he labelled her and Anton Danyluk, 28, the most game-playing couple in the villa (Georgia and Anton pictured)

With nominations for the most argumentative couple and the hottest, things took a sour turn when Joshua said to put Georgia H, 29, and Anton as the biggest game-players in the villa (Georgia and Anton pictured)

Josh and Sophie opened an envelope to reveal that they had been voted by the public as the hottest couple, prompting Josh to sarcastically scream: 'YES!'

One person wrote on Twitter: 'Idgaf no more. Josh is the realest one in the villa and he can win lmao.'

While someone else shared: 'Josh knows he’s the real mvp of love island give him and Sophie the crown.'

Another person wrote: 'Josh and Sophie should win this. The only genuine couple in this villa.'

And someone else posted: 'Sorry but josh is one of my favourite islanders he is always speaking up on whats on everybody's mind.'

'Josh really doesn’t care, he really is from the season that didn’t come on to be an influencer,' noted another viewer.

While someone else commented: 'You CAN TELL Josh is from the OG series 1 of Love Island , very unfiltered and not afraid to speak his mind I LOVE IT!'

Another person shared: 'Imagine how boring this would be without Josh, he doesn’t care what people think of him and it annoys Georgia so much she can’t handle it at all. I think he’s fantastic.'

'Josh carried love island tonight,' wrote one fan, while someone else posted: 'Josh is chaos,' and another viewer wrote: 'Josh made this episode entertaining.'