Mark Wahlberg is feeling like the odd man out after he was snubbed from being asked to join the new Dunkin' Donuts commercial with his fellow Bostonians, Ben Affleck and Matt Damon.

The hilarious advert debuted during Super Bowl LVIII this past Sunday and featured the likes of Affleck, Damon and New England Patriots legend Tom Brady playing the role of a boy band, the DunKings, as they try to impress Jennifer Lopez and others.

It all backfires, in the eyes of Lopez, who sits behind a studio console as her real-life husband and company put on a mock performance, complete with some horribly organized dance moves, in the recording studio, that also features an appearance by rapper Fat Joe.

While on The Late Show With Stephen Colbert this week, Wahlberg was asked why he wasn’t featured in the advertisement since he too is famously from the Boston area.

'You know, I was wondering the same thing,' Wahlberg said, while trying to keep a straight face and not laugh. 'I have no idea. I'm from the wrong side of the tracks, I think.'

Mark Wahlberg gave his reason as to why he wasn't invited to take part in the Bostonian commercial for Dunkin' Donuts that featured Ben Affleck and Matt Damon, along with New England Patriots legend, Tom Brady

With a grin on his face, Wahlberg, 52, told the host that he's been 'trying to work my way into their good graces,' before adding that he thought the advert was 'very, very funny.'

He continued, I think, hopefully, they'll give me the call one of these days, but I'm still waiting patiently.'

The original edited down version of the commercial begins with JLo working in a recording studio when the Massachusetts duo, who play lead singers, interrupt her session with their backup dancers by barreling in to perform a song along with some horribly organized dance moves.

Last year she came to my work now I've got to show her what I can do,' Affleck tells a friend.

Dressed in matching Dunkin' Donuts sweatsuits, the two-time Oscar winner pushes his way into the studio and declares, 'What up punks, for you considering. Here comes the Boston massacre - the DunKings,' which elicited a disgusted and annoyed look on Lopez's face.

'Touchdown Tommy on those keys,' he says to Brady, who's also dressed in the matching outfit as he stood behind a keyboard. 'Play it coach,' he added while fist bumping, for which the seven-time Super Bowl champion, 'You got it.'

The Argo star then points to the direction of lifelong friend Damon and with boy band bravado says: 'He needs to introduction, my partner.' which quickly cuts to the Bourne franchise star confesses: 'Sometimes it's really hard to be your friend.'

'You said you were going to support me,' Affleck responds, and the proceeds to break into a song that begins with the boy band singing in unison: 'DunKings.'

Dressed in matching Dunkin' Donuts sweatsuits, Affleck pushes his way into a recording studio where Jennifer Lopez is working and declares, 'What up punks, for you considering. Here comes the Boston massacre - the DunKings,' which elicited a disgusted look on his wife's face

With the two-time Oscar-winner leading the way, the quartet broke out into their very unsynchronized dance routine, all while dressed in their Dun Kings sweatsuits

The boy bad leader then turned to former NFL great Tom Brady by addressing him as 'Touchdown Tommy on the keys'

Lopez is absoltely mortified when her husband comes barreling in doing their song

The Argo star points to the direction of Damon and says with boy band bravado: 'He needs to introduction, my partner.' which then quickly cuts to the Bourne franchise star who responds: 'Sometimes it's really hard to be your friend'

'You said you were going to support me,' Affleck responds, and the proceeds to break into a song that begins with the boy band singing in unison: 'DunKings'

Affleck and his three back up dancers then starts breaking out all their synchronized dance moves wile delivering the rest of their funky tune, all while Damon watches from off to the side.

'How do like them - doughnuts? I'm so sorry,' Damon says somberly to Lopez.

'You had to see it but I forgive you. Lay us on the track,' Affleck announces just as he offered his wife a two-handed kiss he blew her way.

'Are we going to be on the album?' Brady, who's just one year removed from retiring from the NFL, asked Lopez and the recording crew.

A stunned and still disgusted JLo then tells her husband: 'We talked about this.'

'How do like them - doughnuts? I'm so sorry,' Damon says somberly to Lopez

Rapper Fat Joe then appears in the advert and like Lopez has an annoyed look on his fave

'You're blinded by those pinstripes,' Affleck said as he left the studio, in a reference to Lopez being from the Bronx, New York, home of the New York Yankees

'Remember when I told you I'd do anything for you? This is anything,' Damon tells Affleck as they walk away with their back towards the camera

Wahlberg is from the Southie Boston neighborhood of Dorchester, while Damon and Affleck are from the Cambridge area in the north

Now equally stunned, the actor and director tells his wife: 'That's cold. You're blinded by those pinstripes,' he adds, in a reference to Lopez being from the Bronx, home of the New York Yankees.

He would add one more jab as he made his way out of the recording studio.

'There goes Babe Ruth,' he said, just as he hit his head on the DunKings banner.

'Tom, you can stay,' the Jenny From The Block star tells the iconic quarterback, who won six Super Bowl titled out of his seven with the Patriots, Ben and Matt's favotite team.

'Remember when I told you I'd do anything for you? This is anything,' Damon tells Affleck, as they walk away with their back towards the camera.

Wahlberg is from the Southie Boston neighborhood of Dorchester, while Damon and Affleck are from the Cambridge area in the north.