On the face of it, a player refusing to play for his club seems unforgivable. But Brentford defender James Tarkowski got it absolutely correct when he opted not to take to the field for Friday night's defeat by Burnley in the Championship.

Tarkowski is wanted by the Clarets, the player wants a move back to his native north west and more importantly he wants the best chance of playing in the Premier League.

So why would he play for Brentford and try to take points off a side who he is hoping to win promotion with this season? It's bizarre to even ask him to do that.

Brentford defender James Tarkowski refused to play for the club in Friday's defeat by Burnley

Brentford have said that Tarkowski will face disciplinary action after refusing to to play

But there are bigger issues at work here.

Some have said Tarkowski should be put on gardening leave for the rest of his Brentford contract. I'm not sure how owner Matthew Benham's risk statistics would factor that scenario in, but more importantly, Tarkowski is being hammered for showing no loyalty.

Meantime his fellow Bees defender Harlee Dean could not be more committed to the club, yet despite the fans liking him, and the manager rating him, the stats show he's not worth the offer of a new contract so he will be leaving at the end of his current deal.

Brentford are setting the benchmark when it comes to loyalty, the stats are telling the owner of the club that loyalty is irrelevant.

Tarkowski isn't stupid. He's seen Mark Warburton work wonders and yet be sent on his way for not fitting some number-crunching profile or other. Good performance is normally rewarded, so why stick around at a club that does not reward the success of Warburton, or the loyalty of Dean?

Joey Barton was on the scoresheet as Burnley ran riot against Brentford at Griffin Park

Mark Warburton led Brentford to the play-offs but left the club in the summer

History shows Brentford will be willing to sell Tarkowski to Burnley – Andre Gray made the same move on the eve of Burnley's victory over the Bees at Turf Moor back in August.

The two clubs are playing some mind games with the transfer fee right now, but the move was always likely to happen, and almost certainly will.

So I ask the question again – why would a defender want to play against a team he will be desperate to win promotion with next week? Benham's stats surely show him there is a risk factor in playing Tarkowski against such opponents?

Some will point to Alan Judge, another Brentford player wanted by Burnley. He played and scored on Friday night. His strike should have been saved by the keeper, and by that time the game already lost.

Alan Judge is also wanted by Burnley but he played and scored against them on Friday

Judge celebrates in front of the home supporters - but will he still be at the club next month?

Judge, who has been brilliant this season, was a shadow of his usual self in the first half when Brentford were blitzed. He went to celebrate with the Brentford fans afterwards, that will only mean something if he stays with the club.

Former Labour party spin king Alistair Campbell (a Burnley fan as it happens) wrote a brilliant book called Winners And How They Succeed. In it there is a section all about Benham's path to wealth, how he used the 'predictive utility' of 'good analytics' to make a stack of money. And he did extremely well.

So well he bought his favourite club Brentford. But that methodology has to be questioned in football: when Dean Smith was appointed manager at the end of November he became the Bees' fourth head coach in just over six months. The unpredictability of football and players, that unquantifiable enigmatic human factor, can play havoc with the 'predictive utility' of anyone's 'good analytics.'

Harlee Dean is committed to Brentford but with his contract up in the summer his future is unknown

Brentford owner Matthew Benham uses stats to help him make business and football decisions

Brentford sacked a manager who got them into the play-offs; Burnley stuck with a manager who suffered relegation.

With which club would you feel more secure, more loved and more wanted? And the question therefore becomes, which club is likely to provide the stable environment for you to be at your best and succeed?

Tarkowski was being honest – he couldn't give his all against Burnley – that's human nature. His honesty should be applauded. So what he did was best for him, for Burnley and for Brentford. It was best all round.

Ultimately Tarkoswki did the job that Benham's 'good analytics' should have done for him – made it clear that putting a player in the team who doesn't want to be at the club is not a sensible move.

Benham's operation in north London involves a load of statisticians working in front of TV screens and computers. They come up with data that guides every decision Benham makes.