This abandoned house which has been empty for more than a decade and is in need of a complete refurbish has gone on the market.

The house, which is currently boarded up, is next to Avondale Park in the celebrity haven of Notting Hill in west London.

It was built as a home for the park keeper, for any potential buyer, green fingers will not be enough to cover the bill as it is being offered for £1.75m.

The new owner will have to budget for a complete restoration of the historic building which is within the Avondale Park Conservation Area.

This means there are strict rules on what can be done to the property so as not to adversely affect the area visually.

The house in Notting Hill is the former ground keeeper's cottage for Avondale Park

The house, which is currently on sale for £1.75m is in a highly desirable location

The house has an internal space of 1,028 square feet and has external storage as well as a small front and rear garden. It is also at the entrance to Avondale Park

According to Maskells Estates in London, the detached four bed property has a floor size of 1,028 square feet and is available freehold.

Despite the massive price tag there is only one bathroom.

The house was sold in 2011 for £900,000 and again in 2015 for £1.75million.

It is now listed with a guide price of £1.75million.

According to the selling agents, the property is 'a unique opportunity' to buy the detached cottage at the entrance of Avondale Park.

The sellers admit it is 'now in need of complete refurbishment'.

According to the listing: 'This unique house is currently around 1,129 square feet with small front and back gardens along with a range of external stores and provides a perfect blank canvas for an incoming buyer.'

The cottage, pictured, has been boarded up for a decade and needs extensive work

The also say the house is close to the 'shops and bars of Holland Park and Notting Hill'.

The new owners have been advised the property has a current energy efficiency rating of G but could rise to D.

It is also within the H Council Tax band - which is a further £2,844 a year according to current rates.

Avondale park is on the house's doorstep and it is a short distance from Holland Park and Notting Hill Gate