Cristiano Ronaldo showed his frustrations after Al-Nassr's defeat on Thursday night in bizarre fashion, after supporters threw a rival shirt at him.

The Portuguese forward played the full match as his side were dealt a 2-0 defeat against Al-Hilal during a Riyadh Season Cup match.

Ronaldo was unable to prevent his side's loss on the night and, afterwards, was unable to contain his emotions as he angrily reacted to the result.

Footage that appeared on X, formerly known as Twitter, showed the forward walking down the tunnel at the Kingdom Arena, before a fan threw an Al-Hilal shirt at him.

As he approached the tunnel, he picked the shirt up before seemingly rubbing it against his crotch and throwing it back towards the crowd in frustration.

Cristiano Ronaldo showed his frustrations after Al-Nassr's defeat on Thursday night in bizarre fashion, after a fan threw an Al-Hilal shirt at him

Footage appeared to show the forward rubbing the shirt against his crotch before throwing it back into the crowd

The Portuguese forward was left frustrated after his side's 2-0 Riyadh Season Cup defeat

Your browser does not support iframes.

It appeared as though the only shirts that were thrown towards the star were that of the rival team, in an attempt to goad the five-time Ballon d'Or winner.

Ronaldo then continued down the tunnel, followed by his team-mates, before the video ended.

On the night, Al-Nassr were subjected to defeat after Salem Al-Dawsari and Sergei-Milinkovic Savic wrapped up all three points for Al-Hilal with goals in the first-half.

Before the game, Ronaldo watched on as WWE legend The Undertaker made a surprise appearance before the Riyadh Season Cup game.

Ronaldo, who recently celebrated his 39th birthday, stood in line as Al-Nassr prepared to take on Al-Hilal on Thursday, before the wrestling icon appeared.

With his theme music blaring out at the appeared, The Undertaker wandered out of the tunnel at the Kingdom Arena, in his full WWE attire.

The cult legend made his way out onto the pitch, as both teams lined up prior to kick-off before getting his hand on the Riyadh Season Cup.

Ronaldo played the full 90 minutes of the match as Al-Hilal ran out winners on the night

WWE legend The Undertaker made a surprise appearance at the Riyadh Season Cup

Footage on X showed The Undertaker lifting the trophy before cameras cut to show Ronaldo laughing away with team-mates, as he enjoyed the spectacle.

On Wednesday, the Al-Nassr superstar has posted a message on social media, thanking people for their birthday messages, after entering the final year of his 30s.

On Monday, Ronaldo marked the occasion with a return to training after recovering from a calf injury.