That 70's Show star Danny Masterson has been moved from maximum security prison Corcoran State Prison to the less harsh California Men's Colony in San Luis Obispo, according to reports.

The disgraced TV actor was convicted last May of raping two women in the early 2000s.

He was sentenced in September by a Los Angeles jury to 30 years to life behind bars with the possibility of parole for two counts of rape with force, violence or fear of bodily injury.

He was previously set to serve his term at Corcoran State Prison, which famously housed Charles Manson.

That prison, which was built in 1988, houses some of California's most dangerous prisoners and has a sizable population of Level 4 inmates in need of extra protection and supervision.

That 70's Show star Danny Masterson has been moved from his maximum security prison to a less harsh facility in Obispo, California

Corcoran State Prison houses some of California's most dangerous prisoners

Masterson's new home, California Men's colony, offers self-help and academic programs such as abuse counseling, mental health treatment and anger management

California Men's colony, however, is a medium- to minimum-security prison offer self-help and academic programs for inmates to learn vocational skills.

The courses include substance abuse counseling, mental health treatment and anger management.

Records indicate that the once-prominent member of the Church of Scientology will first be eligible for parole in 2042, when the now-42-year-old is 66.

Following Masterson's sentencing, it was reported that he was under round-the-clock surveillance due to potentially showing signs of 'mental distress.'

Deputies would come by his cell every half hour to check on him 'with the goal of keeping tabs on his mental state and making sure he's safe.'

Masterson's legal team is currently attempting to appeal his conviction.

Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Charlaine Olmedo said in January that Masterson will 'likely remain in custody for decades, and perhaps the rest of his life' if his sentence is upheld on appeal.

The judge, who oversaw his trial and subsequently denied him bail, stating that he is a flight risk in part because his now-ex-wife Bijou Phillips filed for divorce following his guilty verdict last year.

Masterson has been moved to a maximum-security facility that was the longtime holding place of Charles Manson

In addition to cult leader Charles Manson (pictured), Corcoran was also the prison where Sirhan Sirhan, who assassinated RFK was held

Masterson was previously set to serve his term at Corcoran State Prison, which famously housed Charles Manson

The judge's order read: 'In light of the fact that defendant has no wife to go home to, defendant now has every incentive to flee and little reason to return to state prison to serve out the remainder of his lengthy sentence should his appeal be unsuccessful.'

The denial comes after Masterson's attorneys Clifford Gardner and Eric Multhaup wrote in a motion on January 17 asking for the court to grant the disgraced actor bail.

'Defendant requests that this Court grant bail on appeal, and offers to comply with any relevant terms and conditions imposed by the Court that enable him to be an at-home parent and financial provider for his family, including house arrest and/or participation in an electronic monitoring program administered by the probation department' the motion read.

After Masterson' conviction for the two rapes, he was expelled from the Church of Scientology and declared a 'suppressive person' - or an 'SP' - which the church defines as someone whose behavior seeks to impede the spiritual progress of those around him.