Gwen Stefani admitted she has forgotten the lyrics to No Doubt's songs ahead of the band's reunion at Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival.

During an appearance on Jimmy Kimmel Live! on Wednesday night, the 54-year-old singer said she does not remember the lyrics and will have to relearn their songs.

She also revealed that they have not started rehearsals yet for their reunion at the festival in April.

'I don't remember them. No, not at all. I don't,' she replied when asked about performing their songs for the first time in nearly a decade.

The Hollaback Girl hitmaker — who collaborated with her husband Blake Shelton for a new single titled Purple Irises — also gave a hint about their festival setlist.

Gwen Stefani admitted she has forgotten the lyrics to No Doubt's songs ahead of the band's reunion at Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival

'I think I'm going to have to learn probably, like, eight or nine [songs],' she admitted.

While talking about which songs she will have to relearn, she revealed one song that will be on their setlist.

'One of the first songs I ever wrote was called Different People,' she said about the track from No Doubt's 1995 album Tragic Kingdom. 'We're doing that.'

She then covered her mouth in shock as the audience cheered.

'We might be doing that one,' she said upon realizing she had revealed a teaser.

While chatting with Kimmel, Stefani also said it has been nine years since she last performed with her bandmates.

Stefani, who is the lead singer, last performed live with guitarist Tony Dumont, bassist Tony Kanal and drummer Adrian Young in 2015.

Their last reunion was in 2012 when they recorded and released their sixth studio album Push and Shove, which was also their first release in 11 years.

During an appearance on Jimmy Kimmel Live! on Wednesday night, the 54-year-old singer said she does not remember the lyrics and will have to relearn their songs; seen in September 2015

She also revealed that they have not started rehearsals yet for their reunion at the festival in April; seen in April 2023

While chatting with Kimmel, Stefani also said it has been nine years since she last performed with her bandmates. Stefani, who is the lead singer, last performed live with guitarist Tony Dumont, bassist Tony Kanal and drummer Adrian Young in 2015; seen in May 2015

Their last reunion was in 2012 when they recorded and released their sixth studio album Push and Shove, which was also their first release in 11 years. The group was formed in 1986

The group was formed in 1986.

Just weeks earlier, Stefani revealed that she had to explain her past with No Doubt to her youngest son, nine-year-old Apollo.

Ahead of their upcoming reunion, she revealed her son asked her about the festival, their band and which one of her three bandmates was her boyfriend.

In an interview with People published in late January, she recalled teaching her son about No Doubt and explaining their upcoming reunion.

'I had to literally lay in bed with Apollo, and he's like, "But Mom, what is Coachella? Everyone's saying it. What is this? It sounds like it's a big deal",' she said.

'So we had to watch the Don't speak video, and he's like, "But wait, which one was your boyfriend?"

'It was so weird and so funny,' she continued. 'I literally had to tell him each band member.'