Sophie Ellis-Bextor delivered a showstopping performance of her iconic Noughties hit Murder On The Dancefloor at the 2024 British Academy Film Awards on Sunday.

The hitmaker's song soared back into the charts last year after it featured in Emerald Fennell's acclaimed film Saltburn.

As Sophie took to the stage during the ceremony at London's Royal Festival Hall, she wowed in a dramatic black and orange puffball gown.

The star's look boasted a black netted skirt with an orange overlay, and a plunging corset top.

Finishing her look with gold sparkly heels, she slicked back her brunette tresses into a sleek ponytail.

Sophie Ellis-Bextor delivered a showstopping performance of her iconic Noughties hit Murder On The Dancefloor at the 2024 British Academy Film Awards on Sunday

The hitmaker's song soared back into the charts last year after it featured in Emerald Fennell's acclaimed film Saltburn

As Sophie took to the stage during the ceremony at London's Royal Festival Hall, she wowed in a dramatic black and orange puffball gown

Sophie's song featured in Saltburn's viral closing moments, which saw Barry Keoghan's character dance naked around the Saltburn mansion.

Speaking ahead of the ceremony, Sophie admitted that recreating Barry's naked dance 'may be a bit much' for the awards.

When asked about Keoghan re-doing it, Ellis-Bextor told the PA news agency on the red carpet: 'It might be a bit much for him first thing but we have had a moment together already...

'I was lucky enough to meet all the Saltburn cast back in November in LA at the premiere, so it'd be nice to see them again because I think what they've achieved with the film is wonderful so I just want to toast that.'

She also said that she 'felt very complimented' by director Emerald Fennell choosing her 2001 song for the film.

Meanwhile, Saltburn star Richard E Grant joked the cast would strip during Sophie's performance.

He said on the red carpett: 'None of us are keeping our clothes on.

'If you look at where our group is going to be tonight, we've prearranged the whole choreographed thing. I've said during tonight we're taking them all off again… I think it's called The Windmill (dance.)'

The star's look boasted a black netted skirt with an orange overlay, and a plunging corset top

Speaking ahead of the ceremony, Sophie admitted that recreating Barry's naked dance 'may be a bit much' for the awards

'I was lucky enough to meet all the Saltburn cast back in November in LA at the premiere, so it'd be nice to see them again,' she said

THE BAFTA WINNERS AT A GLANCE Best Film - Oppenheimer Best Director - Christopher Nolan, Oppenheimer Supporting Actor - Robert Downey Jr, Oppenheimer Leading Actor - Cillian Murphy, Oppenheimer Leading Actress - Emma Stone, Poor Things Supporting Actress - Da'vine Joy Randolph, The Holdovers Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Richard added about his role in the film as an aristocratic dad who ends up devastated when his son dies: 'I was so grateful to be offered a part, and that I got to keep my clothes on.'

He said about the reaction to the shock bath, grave and nude scenes in 'Saltburn': 'A fair number of grandmothers have written to complain that they were told to watch this film for Christmas and their false teeth fell out.

'(But) it's the way to go. Emerald has a skewed dark sense of humour, and I knew that, and I've known her since she was 13. The darkness and the way she dealt with sexual obsession – it was amazing.

'She was a bold storyteller (aged 13) and has written ever since. She could write.'

Oppenheimer proved to be the big winner on the night, earning seven gongs including Best Film, Supporting Actor for Robert Downey Jr and Director for Christopher Nolan.

Prince William attended the ceremony in London solo as his wife Kate Middleton continues her recovery from last month's abdominal surgery.

Oppenheimer swept up in the big name categories, but it was closely followed by the surreal black comedy Poor Things.

It marked five awards for the film, as Emma Stone collected the Best Actress gong for her turn as Bella Baxter.

After Oppenheimer was awarded Best Film, director Christopher Nolan and his wife Emma Thomas, who also produced the blockbuster, took to the stage.

Emma described her husband, as 'inspired and inspiring' and 'brilliant', adding that he was 'often infuriating and always right.'

'I am incredibly grateful to him for letting me come along for this ride,' she said.

Emma also paid tribute to their 16-year-old son Magnus, saying: 'Your dad and I are the luckiest people in the world but our greatest fortune is being parents to you, Flora, Oliver and Rory.'

Cillian, 47, - who plays the titular role in Christopher Nolan's atomic bomb saga - picked up the Leading Actor prize at the prestigious British awards ceremony.

He triumphed against Bradley Cooper for Maestro, Colman Domingo for Rustin, Paul Giamatti for The Holdovers, Barry Keoghan for Saltburn and Teo Yoo for Past Lives.

Robert, 58, collected a BAFTA for his role as Lewis Strauss in Hollywood blockbuster Oppenheimer, which has swept the board during awards season.

Robert's win set a new record for the longest gap between wins by any performer.

His award, for the film Oppenheimer, comes 31 years after his previous BAFTA, for the 1993 film Chaplin.

Nolan won the Best Director BAFTA for Oppenheimer, his epic tale of how the nuclear bomb was created.

Nolan has previously lost out despite numerous commercial successes such as Inception and The Dark Knight, the UK-born filmmaker won out against Jonathan Glazer [The Zone of Interest], Justine Triet [Anatomy of a Fall], Alexander Payne [The Holdovers], Bradley Cooper [Maestro] and Andrew Haigh [All of Us Strangers].

Oppenheimer swept up in the big name categories, but it was closely followed by the surreal black comedy Poor Things.

It marked five awards for the film, as Emma Stone collected the gong for her turn as Bella Baxter.

Meanwhile, Da'Vine Joy Randolph crowned victorious in the Best Supporting Actress category for her part in The Holdovers as she continues her march to Oscars glory.

Next up, Director Jonathan Glazer and producer James Wilson's The Zone Of Interest won the BAFTA for Outstanding British Film.

The night kicked off with French legal drama Anatomy Of A Fall winning the Original Screenplay award after premiering in Cannes back in May.

Next up, Poor Things has won the BAFTA for special visual effects.

Following this, drama film Earth Mama was honoured with the BAFTA outstanding debut by a British writer, director or producer, presented by David Beckham.

The Zone Of Interest won the BAFTA for a film not in the English language.

The BAFTA for Casting was awarded to Susan Shopmaker for private school-set The Holdovers, while the editing award has gone to Jennifer Lame for Second World War biopic Oppenheimer.

Ahead of the ceremony, Sophie donned a racy black lace gown with a layered floral skirt

The singer's dramatic dress boasted sheer sleeves and a bejewelled front

Comedy drama American Fiction won Best Adapted Screenplay.

The Documentary BAFTA went to 20 Days In Mariupol, which highlights the work of Associated Press journalists in the besieged Ukrainian city during the Russian invasion.

Composer Ludwig Goransson won the BAFTA for Original Score for Oppenheimer while Johnnie Burn and Tarn Willers scooped the honour for best sound for Holocaust film The Zone Of Interest.

The BAFTA for Production Design went to Shona Heath, James Price and Zsuzsa Mihalek for surreal comedy Poor Things, about a woman who is reanimated and begins a new life.

It was previously announced the BAFTA for Outstanding British Contribution to Cinema would go to programmer and archivist June Givanni, founder of the Pan African Film Archive, who collected the prize during the ceremony from Bridgerton star Adjoa Andoh.

Northern Ireland actor James Martin, from Oscar-winning film An Irish Goodbye, presented the British short film Bafta to Yasmin Afifi and Elizabeth Rufai for Jellyfish And Lobster, a tale about care home residents.

Poor Things won two more BAFTAs for best costume design, and make-up and hair.

Samantha Morton collected the BAFTA Fellowship from producer David Heyman, who she worked with on Fantastic Beasts And Where To Find Them.

There were tributes from her Minority Report co-star Tom Cruise, as well as collaborators Susan Lynch, Molly Windsor and Daniel Mays, while Heyman described her as a 'rare breed and true artist'.

The BAFTA Rising Star award was won by Mia Mckenna-Bruce following a public vote.

The star of coming-of-age film How To Have Sex appeared emotional on stage as she thanked her family and her 'beautiful baby boy'.