Taylor Fritz's girlfriend Morgan Riddle has signed a brand deal with sporting goods company Wilson, despite her partner using rival company Head on the court.

Riddle, who has over 14million likes on TikTok and has been previously dubbed the 'most famous woman in men's tennis' by the New York Times, announced the deal with a series of Instagram snaps.

'Your newest @wilson girl !!,' she wrote, as she posed alongside a Wilson racket.

The brand commented 'Welcome to the family!' below the post.

Riddle's deal comes despite Fritz - the top-ranked American man in tennis - using a Head racket in the court.

Morgan Riddle posed with a Wilson racket on Instagram to announce she'd signed a brand deal

Wilson commented 'Welcome to the family!' below the post on her Instagram page

Riddle and Taylor Fritz, the top-ranked American man in tennis, have been dating for four years

Fritz, seen in the semifinals of the Delray Beach Open on Saturday, uses a Head racket

The pair have been dating for the last four years.

He is currently competing in the Delray Beach Open and was seen using the brand in the semifinals against fellow American Marcos Giron.

Fritz will face Tommy Paul in the final of the tournament on Monday.

Riddle opened up earlier this week on her 'scary' experience at the Super Bowl after being 'groped' and 'harassed' by male NFL fans.

The influencer revealed that she had an 'extremely stressful' time at Allegiant Stadium after being harassed by a number of 'drunk' male fans.

Riddle says she was harassed by a number of male fans while at the game in Las Vegas

Riddle detailed her traumatic ordeal on Instagram after the game between the Chiefs and 49Eers admitting it caused her to have a panic attack in the restroom during the third quarter.

'Wasn't going to post about this but I actually think it's important to,' she wrote. 'I can't believe the levels of harassment we dealt with this weekend from men.

'In the last 3 days I've been grabbed, gropped (sic), harassed, cat called incessantly - basically every few minutes when we were out in public. And it was really bad at the game today.

'We couldn't even enjoy the game without getting bothered by drunk, rude, gross male fans. It's extremely stressful and scary.'