Cillian Murphy paid a heartfelt tribute to his wife and sons as he won the Best Actor BAFTA for his role in Oppenheimer on Sunday, as the movie swept the board bagging seven gongs.

The Irish actor, 47, who plays the titular role in Christopher Nolan's atomic bomb saga, picked up the prize at the star-studded London's Royal Festival Hall ceremony.

Presented with the trophy by Cate Blanchett, he paid tribute to wife of 20-years Yvonne McGuinness as well as sons Malachy, 18, and Aran, 16, who is also an actor.

Saying: 'To Yvonne, Malachy and Aran you are my best friend and I love you so much'.

Cillian triumphed over Bradley Cooper for Maestro, Colman Domingo for Rustin, Paul Giamatti for The Holdovers, Barry Keoghan for Saltburn and Teo Yoo for Past Lives.

Accepting the trophy he said: 'Oh boy, holy moly, thank you very, very much BAFTA.'

Cillian Murphy, 47, paid a heartfelt tribute to his wife and sons as he won the Best Actor BAFTA for his role in Oppenheimer on Sunday, as the movie swept the board bagging seven gongs

The Irish actor, who plays the titular role in Christopher Nolan's atomic bomb saga, picked up the prize at the star-studded London's Royal Festival Hall ceremony (Pictured with wife Yvonne McGuinness in 2006)

He also paid tribute to 'the most dynamic, kindest producer-director partnership in Hollywood: Chris Nolan and Emma Thomas, thank you for seeing something in me that I probably didn't see in myself.'

The Irish actor said to Nolan: 'Thank for always pushing me and demanding excellence because that is what you deliver time and time again.'

He also acknowledged his 'fellow nominees and my Oppenhomies', adding: 'I know it's a cliche to say, but I'm in awe of you.'

Cillian described J Robert Oppenheimer, known as the father of the atomic bomb, was a 'colossally knotty character', adding: 'We have a space to debate and interrogate and investigate that complexity and it's a privilege to be a part of this community with you all.

Downey Jr, 58, also collected a BAFTA for his role as Lewis Strauss in the Hollywood blockbuster, which has swept the board during the 2024 awards season.

Robert admitted he owes the award to Nolan, producer Emma Thomas and leading man Murphy, as well as 'British influence'.

Gesturing to Nolan, he said: 'Recently that dude suggested I attempt an understated approach as a last ditch effort to resurrect my dwindling credibility.'

Downey Jr's win set a new record for the longest gap between wins by any performer as it comes 31 years after his previous BAFTA, for the 1993 film Chaplin.

Presented with the trophy by Cate Blanchett, he paid tribute to wife of 20-years Yvonne McGuinness as well as sons Malachy, 18, and actor Aran, 16

Cillian triumphed over Bradley Cooper for Maestro, Colman Domingo for Rustin, Paul Giamatti for The Holdovers, Barry Keoghan for Saltburn and Teo Yoo for Past Lives

He also paid tribute to 'the most dynamic, kindest producer-director partnership in Hollywood: Chris Nolan and Emma Thomas, thank you for seeing something in me that I probably didn't see in myself.'

He said in his speech: 'To Yvonne, Malachy and Aran you are my best friend and I love you so much' (pictured as a family in 2014)

THE BAFTA WINNERS AT A GLANCE Best Film - Oppenheimer Best Director - Christopher Nolan, Oppenheimer Supporting Actor - Robert Downey Jr, Oppenheimer Leading Actor - Cillian Murphy, Oppenheimer Leading Actress - Emma Stone, Poor Things Supporting Actress - Da'vine Joy Randolph, The Holdovers Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

The previous record was 27 years, set by Sir Anthony Hopkins in 2021 when he won the award for best actor for The Father, nearly three decades after his 1994 win for Shadowlands.

Nolan won the Best Director BAFTA for Oppenheimer, his epic tale of how the nuclear bomb was created.

Before accepting the award from actor Hugh Grant, Nolan hugged Murphy.

Nolan joked that his brother 'beat him up here' by being in a chorus of a production 40 years ago.

Nolan has previously lost out despite numerous commercial successes such as Inception and The Dark Knight, the UK-born filmmaker won out against Jonathan Glazer [The Zone of Interest], Justine Triet [Anatomy of a Fall], Alexander Payne [The Holdovers], Bradley Cooper [Maestro] and Andrew Haigh [All of Us Strangers].

He also acknowledged his 'fellow nominees and my Oppenhomies', adding: 'I know it's a cliche to say, but I'm in awe of you'

Cillian shared a hug with co-star Emily Blunt before taking to the stage to make his speech

Cillian married Irish artist Yvonne McGuinness in 2004, after the pair first met at one of his rock band's shows in 1996. They went on to have two sons (pictured in 2016)

He paid tribute to Murphy and added to those who backed the film: 'Thank you for taking on something dark'.

The director also acknowledged the efforts of nuclear disarmament organisations to bring peace.

Oppenheimer swept up in the big name categories, but it was closely followed by the surreal black comedy Poor Things.

It marked five awards for the film, as Emma Stone collected the Best Actress gong for her turn as Bella Baxter.

Accepting her award, she said: 'Since we're in London, I want to start by thanking dialect coach. She praised him for not laughing at her when he taught her how to say 'water'.

'I really wanted to thank my mum, because she's the best person I know. Without her none of this would exist, including my life, so thank you for that Mum.'

American actress Stone said she was 'in awe' of all of the team behind the comedy, where she plays the part of a woman who is reanimated and implanted with the brain of a baby.