Homeowners of a remote stone cottage surrounded by beautiful countryside have been blasted for 'ruining' its garden by decking it out with an artificial lawn.

The quaint five-bedroom £500k property in rural Upper Dalveen in Dumfries, Scotland, is surrounded by picture-postcard green rolling hills with a river nearby.

But instead of allowing their garden to blend in, owners gave it a modern refurb fake grass, flower boxes and wooden patio furniture.

The garden has been slammed on X, formerly Twitter, with eagle-eyed property fans calling it 'absolutely hideous'.

The remote detached property – which has no neighbours - is run as a holiday home for £270-a-night with a review gushing about its 'breathtaking mountain views from every window.'.

Owners of the property in Upper Dalveen in Dumfries have been slammed for giving their garden a controversial makeover

The owners decked out the garden with artificial grass and added a metal border fence

The quaint five-bedroom £500k property is surrounded by picture-postcard green rolling hills with a river nearby

But on an urban planning account on X, viewers were less complimentary and said the owners have 'ruined the surroundings' with their garden.

One person posting on 'X': 'They don't deserve to have that view.'

Another wrote: 'That is just so dreadful, in so many ways.'

Someone else commented:'Fingers crossed the new owners rip out the plastic crap.'

While a fourth said: 'What the hell, why would you do this? They have ruined the surroundings. Absolutely mind-blowing behaviour.'

'I keep looking at the pictures of this property and still can't get my head around the cheap, fake grass', said a fifth.

The makeover was slammed by critics online who said it was 'absolutely hideous'

The remote detached property – which has no neighbours - is run as a holiday home for £270-a-night

The house is totally secluded with the nearest shop being 5.6 miles away in Carronbridge, and nearest train station 7.9 miles away and Sanquhar

It's totally secluded with the nearest shop being 5.6 miles away in Carronbridge, and nearest train station 7.9 miles away and Sanquhar.

The original cottage was relatively modest, but through extensions undertaken in 2010, 2016 and 2018, the property has been redeveloped into a modern five-bedroom family sized home, according to a since-removed listing on RightMove.

The property, which is around a mile off of the main road and down a rocky farm track, has two independent sources of water, solar panels large capacity battery energy storage, gas central heating, underfloor heating and pellet boiler, which is another alternative for hot water and heating.

But unlike critics online, people who stayed at the property seemed unphased by the garden makeover.

One woman wrote: 'What truly set this holiday home apart was its secluded location nestled between mountains and a river. It exuded a sense of peace and magic, providing a serene escape from everyday life.'