Pamela Anderson has teamed up with legendary makeup brand Smashbox in promotion of their product, The Original Photo Finish primer.

The brand dropped several snaps of Pamela, 56, fronting the product and looking incredible as ever with a smoky eye, glossy lipstick, and flawless swipe of blush.

With a wine red manicure and glittering metallic halter, Pamela evoked memories of her 90s glam era as she flashed a jubilant smile.

It's a far cry from the fresh face look she has been embracing, with the former Baywatch star displaying a makeup-free countenance at events and even in a campaign for Proenza Schouler.

In a playful commercial for the primer, Pamela transforms back to her glamorous roots after she is sent a bottle of the primer in the mail, sending her back to the year 1990.

Pamela Anderson has teamed up with legendary makeup brand Smashbox in promotion of their classic product, The Original Photo Finish primer

The calendar flashes forward to the year 2000, showing Pamela looking as stylish and stunning as ever as she parties in a sparkling silver dress.

She catches the attention of makeup artist Leilani Green and influencer Steph Hui. 'Oh my God, that's Pamela Anderson,' Leilani remarks, shocked at the sight of the 90s icon.

Pamela posted the ad to her Instagram account, captioning it: 'To each their own — Make up is a fun extension of who we are, but it isn’t all we are…

'@SmashboxCosmetics shares its OG original 90’s vegan and cruelty-free primer. And, when they approached me a few months ago… I was honored— A fun "wink to the past"… Though it’s not my aesthetic now… It was very flash back then… but those were the days…'

She recalled meeting Smashbox founder Davis Factor at the Los Angeles club the Roxbury.

'Rock’n roll… bedazzled, shiny everything… silver, black and red… oh my ha. And, @davisfactor (Smashbox founder) and I go way back… We met at the Roxbury — that’s how authentic 90’s this pairing is…

'But, back in the day… They only used the "hottest super models" in their campaigns… and I was still "the girl next door" struggling to pay my rent… I would have fell over at the thought of appearing in a campaign for them… It’s kind of funny… after all these years…

'It’s a silly dream… maybe… But fun. A sense of humor about one’s self is something I admire … it has gotten me through a lot. It just makes me happy.

The brand dropped several snaps of Pamela, 56, fronting the product and looking incredible as ever with a smoky eye, glossy lipstick, and flawless swipe of blush

She evoked memories of a 90s Pamela with her glam makeup and hairstyle

It comes as Pamela has been embracing a makeup-free approach to her look; pictured at Paris Fashion Week

'And the best over all beauty secret… for anyone, at any age… is a smile.'

Speaking of how the campaign came to be, Pamela told Harper's Bazaar: 'I’ve had a lot of people, a lot of brands come to me about doing kind of a flashback. I mean, even Vogue and different designers have asked me to do these flashback campaigns.

'I was like, "Well, I’m going to take this because it’s one of the things on my list I always wish I was able to do."

'The beauty industry wasn’t looking at me back in the ’90s. But now, since the ’90s are popular, I’m just going to take that. I’m just going to be happy about it.'

Pamela pictured with her iconic hair and makeup back in 1994

She also starred in a commercial advertising the Smashbox primer

It begins with Anderson being sent a bottle of the primer in the mail

The product sent her back to the year 1990 and also saw her time travel to 2000

Anderson gazed at her reflection in the mirror

She returned to the year 1990 in the playful ad

She also talked recently attending Paris Fashion Week sans makeup, admitting she decided to forgo cosmetics simply because it took too much time.

'That’s why this campaign kind of came at a perfect time, because I thought, “I am not trying to say that I’m this natural-beauty guru [by going makeup-free]. I’m just experimenting.”

'And when I didn't wear makeup at Fashion Week, it was just for myself to go, “Why am I doing this? I mean, this whole glam team, it just seems too much for me. I don’t have much time in Paris, and I want to go wander around and look at the architecture. I don’t want to be in a makeup chair for three hours. Is that going to make someone like me more? Is that going to do something better for me? Why am I doing it?”

Pamela recently did a campaign for Proenza Schouler, makeup-free

Pamela previously revealed she began embracing her natural beauty after her makeup artist, Alexis Vogel, passed of breast cancer in 2019.

'She was the best. And since then, I just felt, without Alexis, it’s just better for me not to wear makeup,' she told Elle.

She said that going without makeup has been 'freeing, and fun, and a little rebellious too.'

'Because I did notice that there were all these people doing big makeup looks, and it's just like me to go against the grain and do the opposite what everyone's doing.'

Pamela's new campaign comes after she launched her new skincare company, Sonsie Beauty. She announced the new venture by going make-up free in a video shot at her island in Canada.

Her Instagram caption began: 'I’m thrilled to share that, as of today, I have officially joined @sonsieskin as co-founder and new owner!

'Sonsie is an emerging, beautiful, vegan & cruelty-free skincare company… with an important message that I want to help share with the world,' said the ex of rock star Tommy Lee.

'To me, true beauty is about celebrating authenticity… I want to look like myself, feel like myself, and that means taking care of myself — inside and out…' she added.