The flaxen-haired Spencer sisters enjoyed a winter jaunt to Madrid this weekend, to attend the Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week in the Spanish capital.

Lady Amelia Spencer and Lady Eliza Spencer opted for co-ordinating black and gold couture to attend the Casademunt by Maite's fashion show at IFEMA Madrid.

The 31-year-old twins, who are Princess Diana's nieces, wore their blonde hair sleek and loose for the fashion event, with both wearing outfits made from the same fabric.

Lady Amelia wore a boucle skirt suit in the black and gold check, with a matching over-sized handbag and brushed gold earrings.

Meanwhile, her twin opted for trousers in the same fabric, along with a chic gold shirt and smaller version of the handbag. Both wore matching stiletto heels.

Black and gold: Lady Amelia Spencer and Lady Eliza Spencer opted for a co-ordinated look at the Casademunt by Maite's fashion show at IFEMA Madrid this weekend

Boucle beauties! The sisters, regular at couture events, were in the Spanish capital this weekend for Madrid Fashion Week

The stylish siblings, the daughters of Earl Spencer, Diana's brother, are a regular at fashion house events, and last week were seen at the Air Ambulance ball in the English capital.

The sisters looked elegant at the glittering black and white gala dinner at Raffles London at the OWO (Old War Office) on February 7th.

Amelia and Eliza grew up in South Africa but moved to the UK three years ago, and have been enjoying the couture scene ever since.

The 31-year-old twins, who are Princess Diana's nieces, wore their blonde hair sleek and loose

The socialites, 31, opted for the same fabric styled in different ways

Both wore killer black heels to the designer event, which took place at IFEMA Madrid

Speaking to The Telegraph in 2021, the duo discussed their childhood in the wealthy suburb of Constantia in South Africa, admitting they don't use their titles outside of the UK and had a 'normal, happy childhood.'

When asked about what they like to do with their father Charles, the twins referred to childhood memories.

They explained: 'Football, competitive croquet, hide-and-seek. Growing up, the house would always be busy, full of extended family and friends.’

Explaining why they decided to move to London in 2021, Amelia added: 'Cape Town was all about the sea, hiking, horse riding, tennis, netball... After high school and university we were so happy that we didn’t feel the need to move, but the last few years we found our confidence.

'In London everyone seems so driven; it makes you want to reach your full potential.’