A sprawling 1930s country house once rented by late James Bond actor Roger Moore has been put on the market for a whopping £2.1 million.

In the 1960s, the star, who passed away in May 2017 from lung and liver cancer aged 89, briefly resided in the lavish Appleton House, which is located in the Stinchcombe area in the Cotswolds, Gloucestershire and sits on a steep slope just south of Gloucester, with extensive views from the rear.

The house boasts six bedrooms, five bathrooms, and a large outbuilding and stands on an eye-popping 2.8 acres of land, with the interiors modelled with Edwardian styles.

The property also features an attached studio with a terrace, detached garage, gym and a luxury pool.

Estate agent Alasdhair Lochrane said: 'He had visited it previously and knew the Cotswolds. It's an interesting part of the history and says something about the house that someone like Sir Roger Moore chose to live there...

A sprawling 1930s country house once rented by late James Bond actor Roger Moore has been put on the market for a whopping £2.1 million

Roger is pictured in 1973's Live And Let Die. He passed away in May 2017 from lung and liver cancer aged 89

In the 1960s, the star, who passed away in May 2017 from lung and liver cancer aged 89, briefly resided in the lavish Appleton House, which is located in the Stinchcombe area in the Cotswolds, Gloucestershire and sits on a steep slope just south of Gloucester, with extensive views from the rear

The house boasts six bedrooms, five bathrooms, and a large outbuilding and stands on an eye-popping 2.8 acres of land, with the interiors modelled with Edwardian styles

Sir Roger died after a 'short but brave' battle with cancer, his family said, surrounded by love in his final days. They paid tribute to his campaign work, saying he considered the time with UNICEF to be his 'greatest achievement'

Roger is pictured in 2013

'It's got all the character of an older property, but it is not listed, and its owners have improved it a lot. It has an impressive garden room off the living room and kitchen and a large rear terrace with stunning views of its gardens and woodland and rural landscapes beyond. It feels quite private as you only get glimpses of it from the road.'

Mansion Global details: 'Built in 1935, the property features stone mullion, leadlight windows, wooden flooring and half-pitched ceilings. It also has modern spaces and additions, which are great for family living...

'Its drawing room has an open fireplace and forms the cozy heart of the home. The rear of the house has an orangery and a large terrace which capture the far-reaching views.

Speaking to the Telegraph in 2012, he said: 'I love cash. When I came out of the Army I went into reparatory theatre in Palmers Green and I think I got £9 or £10 a week and they were all in crispy £1 notes. The sheer luxury of them.'

Sir Roger died after a 'short but brave' battle with cancer, his family said, surrounded by love in his final days. They paid tribute to his campaign work, saying he considered the time with UNICEF to be his 'greatest achievement'.

The statement said: 'It is with a heavy heart that we must announce our loving father has passed away today in Switzerland after a short but brave battle with cancer. The love with which he has surrounded in his final days was so great it cannot be quantified in words alone.'

The star's family - including his children Deborah, Geoffrey and Cristian - revealed his funeral will take place in Monaco, where he lived with fourth wife Kristina Tholstrup.

The statement added: 'Our thoughts must now turn to supporting Kristina at this difficult time, and in accordance with our father's wishes there will be a private funeral in Monaco.'

The property also features an attached studio with a terrace, detached garage, gym and a luxury pool

Mansion Global details: 'Built in 1935, the property features stone mullion, leadlight windows, wooden flooring and half-pitched ceilings. It also has modern spaces and additions, which are great for family living'

Moore enjoyed a stellar show business career spanning over six decades, but he will be forever best known for being the longest-running actor to play suave super-spy 007.

He played James Bond for 12 years and seven 007 films to his credit, starting with 1973's Live and Let Die.

James Bond producers Barbara Broccoli and Michael G Wilson said Sir Roger Moore's 'legacy shall live on through his films and the millions of lives he touched'.

Broccoli and Wilson wrote in a statement posted on the official James Bond Facebook page: 'We are heartbroken at the news of Sir Roger Moore's passing.

'On the screen, he reinvented the role of James Bond with tremendous skill, charisma and humour. In real life, he was a genuine hero working as a Unicef Goodwill Ambassador for many years dedicating his life to alleviating the suffering of children all over the world.

'He was a loyal and beloved friend and his legacy shall live on through his films and the millions of lives he touched. We shall miss him enormously. Our love and thoughts are with Deborah, Geoffrey, Christian, his grandchildren and his wife Kristina.'

Broccoli and Wilson helm Eon Productions, the company that produces the James Bond films.

Estate agent Alasdhair Lochrane said: 'He had visited it previously and knew the Cotswolds. It's an interesting part of the history and says something about the house that someone like Sir Roger Moore chose to live there'