Human doctors stepped in to perform a rare emergency C-section on a gorilla after she went into labour five weeks early.

Pregnant mum Sekani showed signs of pre-eclampsia identical to human mothers - holding her head as if she had an extreme headache.

Zookeepers at Fort Worth Zoo, Texas, called in a team of gynecologists who usually spend their time looking after pregnant women, to assist with the urgent delivery.

Alongside vets, they performed a rare emergency c-section birth, five weeks early - saving the life of the mum and baby gorilla - now called Jameela - on January 5.

Doctors used to caring for premature babies were on hard to resuscitate the little one - just like the would for babies born early.

Human doctors stepped in to perform a rare emergency C-section on a gorilla after she went into labour five weeks early

Doctors used to caring for premature babies were on hard to resuscitate the little one - just like the would for babies born early

READ MORE: Western lowland gorilla is born at London Zoo for the first time in nine years - raising fresh hopes for the critically endangered species London Zoo has a new resident, in the form of an adorable infant Western lowland gorilla. The tiny infant was born to mum Mjukuu at 09:34am yesterday, following a speedy labour that lasted just 17 minutes Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sciencetech/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

And photos show the little gorilla being looked after in settings near identical to a human baby.

Following the birth, Sekani has struggled to bond and care for the female newborn, which is being given round the clock care by zookeepers.

Experts hope another female gorilla, Gracie, may be a possible surrogate for the baby.

It is the third gorilla birth in the zoo's 115-year history but the first gorilla to be born via cesarean section.

Dr Jamie Walker Erwin led the surgery with neonatologist Dr Robert Ursprung and Dr Dennis Occkiogrosso - all more used to human patients than animal ones.

The baby was named Jameela - in part after Jamie.

Dr Erwin said: 'Taking part in delivering Sekani's infant via cesarean section was one of the highlights of my entire career as an OB-GYN.

'It is an honour and privilege to assist with care for this endangered species and to share my expertise with the veterinary staff at the Fort Worth Zoo.

'I was amazed at how Sekani's anatomy matched that of my human patients.'

The infant required immediate intervention and Dr Ursprung assisted the Fort Worth Zoo team with resuscitation and stabilisation, respiratory support and radiographs.

The infant required immediate intervention and Dr Ursprung assisted the Fort Worth Zoo team with resuscitation and stabilisation, respiratory support and radiographs

Fort Worth Zoo primate keepers, along with veterinary and nutrition staff, began around-the-clock care and feeding of the little gorilla while Sekani recovered

It is the third gorilla birth in the zoo's 115-year history but the first gorilla to be born via cesarean section

READ MORE: Orangutans can BEATBOX: Incredible video reveals how apes can make two separate sounds simultaneously Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sciencetech/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_2 - ->

'It was incredible how similar this mother-infant pair was compared to what I see in the hospital for babies born under similar circumstances,' said Dr. Ursprung.

'The baby needed critical respiratory support for a few hours post-delivery, but as she transitioned to life outside the womb, she stabilised quite nicely.

'She had so many features typical of a slightly premature human baby.

'The zoo's care team was incredible. Their ability to adapt to the care needs of a medically fragile infant was amazing to watch.'

Fort Worth Zoo primate keepers, along with veterinary and nutrition staff, began around-the-clock care and feeding of the little gorilla while Sekani recovered.

Despite repeated attempts to reunite the mother and baby, Sekani showed little interest in caring for her baby, they said.

Zoo experts suspect Sekani never experienced the necessary hormonal cues that come during natural and full-term birth.

After two weeks and several unsuccessful reunification attempts, staff started to train 24-year-old female gorilla Gracie to become a surrogate mother.

Gracie has two offspring of her own, including one-year-old Bruno and is already trained to 'present' her baby up to keepers for a visual examination.

Adorable photos show the researchers bottle training Jameela, who was born five weeks early via C-section

Zookeepers at Fort Worth Zoo, Texas , called in a team of gynecologists who usually spend their time looking after pregnant women, to assist with the urgent delivery

Jameela's birth has delighted animal lovers across social media, with many flocking to the zoo's Instagram this week.

Replying to a post about her birth, one user wrote: 'Thank you so much for the amazing job everyone at the Fort Worth Zoo does!! It brings tears of joy to see this beautiful baby girl'

Another added: 'Look at that little face! Grow strong baby.'

And one commented: 'My daughter was premature, emergency c-section too, because I had pre-eclampsia!

'Absolutely mind-blowing that the same procedures and complications can be done/found in gorillas!'