Roman Kemp has announced he is stepping down from his Capital Breakfast show, 10 years after presenting his first programme for the station.

With just six weeks left on air, his last show will be on March 28.

Speaking on his show, he said: 'What I can tell you is I'm not saying goodbye right now, I'm not leaving the show today and that's it, but it's not far away.

'It will come and that goodbye will come in five to six weeks. It's not a decision that has come overnight either, it's massive, I've not found it easy at all.

'Capital is my family, you as the wonderful listeners that you've been, you've been with me at my best times and my absolute lowest ... Capital and Global have helped change me.

Radio legend Roman Kemp, 31, has confirmed he is stepping down from Capital Breakfast after 10 years at the station

The radio host revealed he has just six weeks left on air and his last show will be on March 28

'I was 22 years old when I first joined Capital and it's built me into the man that I am today, it is all that I know. But I know that now is the right time to leave and now is the right time to move on.'

Roman joined Capital in 2014 before hosting the prestigious The Capital Evening Show in 2016.

In 2017 he moved to Capital Breakfast before taking the show nationwide in 2019.

He continued: 'You listening, and the people in this room, every single person in this room, my producing team, Sian and Chris, Sonny who has done it in the past and Vick Hope who had done it in the past. It's everyone.

'The next couple of weeks as I kind of approach the end of my time here on Capital, it's going to be so tough. I love this place so much, I love it. I love the station, I love everything about it, Capital is my family.

'And I also love the connection that you and I, the listeners, have built together. It's changed. I know that it started out as me being just Martin Kemp's son, I hope that now you can call me your friend.'

As Capital shared the news over on their Instagram, Roman jokingly replied: 'Only got the job because of his dad, good riddance I say'.

The new host of Capital Breakfast will be confirmed soon, the station said.

Roman added: 'I've loved every single moment of my time at Capital. The last 10 years have been amazing and hosting the legendary Capital Breakfast is the best job ever.

Roman gushed: 'Capital is my family, you as the wonderful listeners that you've been, you've been with me at my best times and my absolute lowest ... Capital and Global have helped change me'

Roman and his co-hosts Sian Welby and Chris Stark at the Capital's Jingle Bell Ball in 2023

As Capital shared the news over on their Instagram, Roman jokingly replied: 'Only got the job because of his dad, good riddance I say'

Roman also took to his social media to issue his own statement as he added: 'When I started this show I was told to remember it's like a table at the pub with your friends and one chair is empty so the listener can come and join the laughs...'

Roman joined Capital in 2014 before hosting the prestigious The Capital Evening Show in 2016

As fans and friends rushed to send their love to the star he received a plethora of well wishes

'But after almost seven years of early alarms, I'm looking forward to some lie-ins and it's time to hand over the baton!

'It's been a privilege and an honour to wake up millions of people every day. It's the best job in radio and I'll miss our listeners and the team at Global lots.

'Whoever the next host of Capital Breakfast is, they're in for the most incredible ride.'

Founder & Executive President of Global, Ashley Tabor-King CBE said: 'Roman, it's been a pleasure. You've been a fantastic host and custodian of one of the biggest shows in UK radio, the Capital breakfast show.

'I've loved watching you grow and grow as a broadcaster and as a person and I wish you all the very best for whatever comes next.'

Meanwhile James Rea, the Chief Broadcasting and Content Officer at Global, said: 'Roman has been a first-class presenter and it's been fantastic to have him on the team.

I want to thank him for the incredible job he's done for Capital over the last 10 years. We look forward to announcing the new Capital Breakfast soon.'

Roman also took to his social media to issue his own statement as he added: 'When I started this show I was told to remember it's like a table at the pub with your friends and one chair is empty so the listener can come and join the laughs...

'Well not it's time for me to give my chair at the table to someone else.'

As fans and friends rushed to send their love to the star he received a plethora of well wishes.

Former Capital host Sonny Jay wrote: 'Mate ❤ my best (and worst) memories are with you on this show. Congratulations on an amazing run. Thank you for the ride on your coattails love ya bud x'.

Vick Hope penned: 'Great shift my friend ❤️ Now enjoy the lie in xxxxx' and Rochelle Humes commented: 'You kept that chair warm in the best way! Congratulations friend'.

Meanwhile Roman's I'm A Celebrity pal Jacqueline Jossa gushed: 'Oh. Roman! You’ll be missed! Can’t wait to see what you do next. I know it’s going to be HUGE'.