Whether it's American-style fluffy pancakes or thin and crispy French crepes, people around the world will be cooking up a stack to celebrate Pancake Day today.

But a key question remains - which toppings are best?

While many budding chefs enjoy the classic flavours of lemon and sugar, others prefer more unusual combinations such as blue cheese and parma ham.

To help you with your shopping list, we turned to AI chatbot, ChatGPT, which came up with a list of the 10 best toppings.

So, do you agree with its choices?

While many budding chefs enjoy the classic flavours of lemon and sugar, others prefer more unusual combinations such as blue cheese and parma ham. To help you with your shopping list, we turned to AI chatbot, ChatGPT , which came up with a list of the 10 best toppings

Whether it's American-style fluffy pancakes or thin and crispy French crepes, people around the world will be cooking up a stack to celebrate Pancake Day today. But a key question remains - which toppings are best?

The best pancake toppings, according to AI Maple syrup Fresh berries Whipped cream Chocolate chips Nutella Peanut butter Honey Jam Nuts Greek yoghurt Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sciencetech/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Shrove Tuesday, also known as Pancake Day, is the feast day before Lent starts on Ash Wednesday.

'Before Lent could begin, all of the foods people couldn't eat while fasting needed to be removed from the house so that they wouldn't be tempted to break the rules,' English Heritage explained.

'And the best way to do that was to eat these foods during Shrovetide.

'Meats like bacon would be eaten up on "Collop Monday" (a collop is a thin slice of meat), two days before the start of Lent.

'On Shrove Tuesday, eggs, butter and fat were used up – and one of the easiest ways to do this was to make pancakes or fritters.'

To celebrate the occassion, we asked ChatGPT for the best pancake toppings.

Within seconds, the AI bot produced a list of 10 toppings, with the caveat that 'the best pancake toppings often depend on personal preference'.

Topping the list is maple syrup, which ChatGPT describes as a 'classic choice that adds sweetness and richness to pancakes.'

This is followed by fresh fruits and whipped cream.

Surprisingly, the AI bot does not recommend one of the most popular combinations - lemon and sugar - or any savoury options, such as bacon

To celebrate the occassion, we asked ChatGPT for the best pancake toppings. Within seconds, the AI bot produced a list of 10 toppings, with the caveat that 'the best pancake toppings often depend on personal preference'

READ MORE: The best items on a Full English Breakfast, according to ChatGPT Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sciencetech/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_2 - ->

'Sliced strawberries, blueberries, bananas, raspberries, or any other fruit can add freshness and flavor,' the AI bot said.

Those of you with a particularly sweet tooth will be happy to hear that ChatGTP recommends two chocolatey toppings - chocolate chips and Nutella.

Meanwhile, one of the more unusual suggestions is peanut butter.

'Creamy or crunchy peanut butter adds a savory note and protein to pancakes,' ChatGPT said.

Honey, jam or fruit preserves are next on the list, followed by nuts.

'Chopped nuts like walnuts, pecans, almonds, or pistachios add crunch and texture,' the AI bot added.

Finally, rounding out the list is greek yoghurt, which ChatGPT describes as a 'healthier option that adds creaminess and a tangy flavor.

Surprisingly, the AI bot does not recommend one of the most popular combinations - lemon and sugar - or any savoury options, such as bacon.

However, it added: 'Feel free to mix and match these toppings to create your perfect pancake combination!'

The pancake topping ratings come shortly after ChatGPT attempted to rank the items on a Full English Breakfast.

Coming out in the top spot was crispy bacon, which ChatGPT called a 'key element' in the English breakfast.

This was followed by eggs, with ChatGPT suggesting fried or scrambled would suffice.

'Fried or scrambled eggs are a crucial part of the meal and add protein,' the bot explained.

The third most important element is pork sausages, which 'contribute to the heartiness of the breakfast and are a substantial element,' according to ChatGPT.

Meanwhile, good old-fashioned toast came in fourth place.