The former holiday home of late Australian music legend Lobby Loyde has hit the market with a price guide of $2.2million-$2.4million.

Located in the famed seaside destination of Portsea, Victoria, 111kms from Melbourne, the delightful beach house features three-bedrooms and two-bathrooms.

Loyde, who died in 2007 aged 65, rose to fame in the 1960s and later produced the first best-selling LP by 80s Oz-rock favourites the Sunnyboys.

The Herald Sun reports Loyd had spent vacations in the house, practising his notoriously loud and aggressive style of music.

He later influenced Australian bands like Rose Tattoo and international stars such as Kurt Cobain of Nirvana.

The former holiday home of late Australian music legend Lobby Loyde has hit the market with a price guide of $2.2million-$2.4million

Situated just minutes from the beach front, the two-level home features a gorgeous open-living living area on the upper floor.

The lounge opens out onto a large wraparound deck Loyd built himself and which offers spectacular views of the surrounding bushland.

Two of the main bedrooms also share the top floor.

Loyde, who died in 2007 aged 65, rose to fame in the 1960s and later produced the first best-selling LP by 80s Oz-rock favourites the Sunnyboys

Meanwhile the large kitchen boasts plenty of bench space.

There's also an office/bedroom space on the ground floor, a large carport and a caravan.

Loyd was a favourite in the thriving Australian music scene in the 1960s and had success with a number of bands including the Purple Hearts.

Located in the famed seaside destination of Portsea, Victoria, 111kms from Melbourne , the delightful beach house features three-bedrooms and two-bathrooms

The Herald Sun reports Loyd had spent vacations in the house, practising his notoriously loud and aggressive style of music

He scored a major breakthrough when his band The Impacts (later named the Wild Cherries) supported The Rolling Stones on their 1965 Australian tour.

Loyd later joined rock legends Billy Thorpe and the Aztecs.

Late in his long career he appeared with Rose Tattoo.

He was inducted into the ARIA Hall of Fame in 2006, a year after he was diagnosed with lung cancer.