A Kansas City Chiefs fan arrested and photographed in the immediate aftermath of the shooting at the Super Bowl Parade Wednesday has spoken out saying he was detained for being drunk and wasn't part of the violence.

Wednesday's parade descended into chaos when two teenagers fired into the crowds, injuring 22 and killing one.

Denton Loudermill from Olathe, Kansas, was pictured in handcuffs as the violence ensued, leading some to speculate he had been involved in the violence.

But, his lawyer said he was arrested for being intoxicated and not moving from the crime scene. He was released without an arrest or a citation.

'I just want to clear my name that I had nothing to do with anything,' Loudermill told KMBC on Saturday.

A Kansas City Chiefs fan arrested and photographed in the immediate aftermath of the shooting at the Super Bowl Parade Wednesday has spoken out saying he was detained for being drunk and wasn't part of the groups that led to violence

The man pictured, now identified as Denton Loudermill, says he was detained for being drunk and was not involved in the shooting

'I was just enjoying myself like everybody else' he explained.

'Mr. Denton had several drinks, but so did a half million other people, including some of the Chiefs players. It's not a crime. It doesn't make you a mass shooter,' Attorney and justice advocate LaRonna Lassiter Saunders said.

Adding: 'Mr. Denton has received death threats over a lie, over misinformation,' she said. 'He didn't do anything wrong. He did not commit a crime.

'So please, run, tell that. Get the truth out there. Help us clear his name. Help us save his life.'

The two teenage suspects have now been charged with gun-related offenses and resisting arrest, The Jackson County Family Court division said on Friday.

Their names have not been released and they were charged as minors.

'It is anticipated that additional charges are expected in the future as the investigation by the Kansas City Police Department continues,' the Office of the Juvenile Officer said in a statement.

Police Chief Stacey Graves said investigators believe the shooting was triggered by a personal dispute between a small group, and the parade was not the target.

Graves added preliminary findings show no connection to terrorism or homegrown extremism.

Police spokesperson Alayna Gonzalez said in an email that police are working with juvenile prosecutors 'to review investigative findings and determine applicable charges. The juvenile court system determines the custody status of all juvenile arrests.'

Graves said on Friday: 'Our investigators have poured themselves into this investigation, and it continues. We will not relent until everyone who may have played a part in these crimes is apprehended so that they will be punished to the fullest extent of the law,'

The shooting outside Union Station occurred despite the presence of more than 800 police officers who were in the building and surrounding area, including on top of nearby structures, said Mayor Quinton Lucas.

A mother of two was killed and 22 people were injured by gunfire Wednesday afternoon, when shots erupted amid the throng of fans gathered at a rally outside Union Station after a parade through the city. Graves said Thursday that victims ranged from ages 8 to 47, with half under 16.

The slain woman was identified by radio station KKFI-FM as Lisa Lopez-Galvan, host of 'Taste of Tejano'

Lopez-Galvan was married with two children and worked as a DJ for a community radio station

People flee after shots were fired near the Kansas City Chiefs' Super Bowl LVIII victory parade

Two minors have been charged in the Kansas City Chiefs parade shooting. Images circulating on social media show a group of people being taken into custody following the shooting, some of whom appear to be juveniles. It is not clear if those pictured are suspects

The slain woman was identified by radio station KKFI-FM as Lisa Lopez-Galvan, host of 'Taste of Tejano.'

Lopez-Galvan, whose DJ name was 'Lisa G,' was an extrovert and devoted mother from a prominent Latino family in the area, said Rosa Izurieta and Martha Ramirez, two childhood friends who worked with her at a staffing company.

Local Democrat Manny Abarca who was a friend of Lopez-Galvan's spoke about her impact in an interview with TalkTV's Jeremy Kyle and Rosie Wright on Talk Today.

'It’s a tragic situation. I was there with my six year old daughter, Camilla and we went from catching confetti to hiding in a bathroom, not knowing what our fate may be. Unfortunately, this is the state of large events like this in America.'

We have to look out for those with weapons that are readily accessible, and accessible particularly in states like Missouri,' he continued.

Abarca went on to call Lopez-Galvan an 'incredible leader in the Latino community' in Kansas City.

'I've had the opportunity and privilege to be on her show and participating in community events throughout Kansas City with her and her family. So she is a large loss to our community.'

Several people were seen being wheeled away in a stretcher in the aftermath of Wednesday mass shooting

An injured fan receives assistance and is carried away from the scene of the shooting

Fans were seen scrambling from the scene as the shots rang out shortly after players left the stage

After thousands of fans fled for their lives, only law enforcement officers were left stationed on the eerily quiet streets

Patrick Mahomes and wife Brittany visited Children's Mercy Hospital where Madison Reyes, 10, (pictured) and her younger sister are recovering from their gunshot wounds

'But also, she was a mother. She was a friend and neighbor. These are the types of folks that, tragically, are victim to what some, you know, use as a hobby, collecting so many guns.'

A friend of Lopez-Galvan, Lisa Lopez, told the outlet: 'She was the most wonderful, beautiful person.

'She was a local DJ. She did everybody’s weddings. We all know her. She was so full of life.'

On Saturday, Children's Mercy Hospital in Kansas City announced that all patients admitted after the horrific shooting at the Chiefs' Super Bowl parade have now been discharged.

All but one child had been released by Friday but that last victim has now also been discharged.

University Health also released an update on Saturday and revealed they are still treating three shooting victims, one of whom is in critical condition.