Meghan Markle's estranged BFF Jessica Mulroney shared a cryptic post on Valentine's Day as the Sussex's gave a loved up display on the slopes.

The stylist, 43, from Toronto, took to Instagram to share the post with her 400,000 followers which read: 'Less candy hearts, more bunny hugs.'

The quote, which was shared to her stories, was originally posted by Toronto fashion brand Province of Canada.

The cryptic post comes after Prince Harry and Meghan spend Valentine's Day in Canada - the country where they fell in love - as they hit the slopes followed by a film crew.

Harry and Meghan were smiling and hand-in-hand as they arrived at the ski station at the picturesque ski resort of Whistler, in British Columbia.

The stylist, 43, took to Instagram to share the post with her 400,000 followers which read: 'Less candy hearts, more bunny hugs'

Meghan's estranged BFF Jessica Mulroney shares cryptic post on Valentine's Day as the Sussex's give a loved up display on the slopes. Both pictured in 2016

The former Suits star also appeared to be filming on her phone as Harry tried a ski chair for disabled athletes and spoke to instructors as well as competitors training for Invictus 2025.

They did not appear at all affected by the row over their Sussex.com website - and criticism over their use of the royal links despite their rift with the Windsors and an agreement with the Queen not to use their HRH titles for business purposes or trade off their royal connections.

The Whistler trip is their first public appearance as a couple since King Charles's cancer diagnosis. Archie, four, and Lilibet, two, appear to have stayed at home in Montecito.

In December last year Jessica posted another cryptic message on her Instagram story which hit out at people who 'believe lies' about others - three years after her close friendship with the Duchess cooled.

The video suggested there are two sides to every story, suggesting there are some people who choose not to listen to both sides because they are likely searching for reasons to be against someone.

The woman in the clip, who does not appear to have any connection to Jessica, said: 'Anybody who believes lies about you, before even hearing your side of the story, was already looking for a way to be against you, do I need to say that one more time?'

The mother-of-three made no reference to what her post was referring to, however three years ago, she and the Duchess appeared to lose closeness after she found herself at the centre of a social media storm related to the Black Lives Matter movement.

The cryptic post comes after Prince Harry and Meghan Markle spend Valentine's Day in Canada - the country where they fell in love - as they hit the slopes followed by a film crew

Duke and Duchess of Sussex with participant Rosa Sanchez Bermudez from Colombia at Whistler Blackcomb

Amid horror around the world following the murder of George Floyd in 2020 which sparked worldwide protests, Jessica found herself under fire from a black influencer who called her behavior 'problematic' - which saw her dropped from several high-profile networks.

Sasha Exeter, a Canadian lifestyle influencer, posted what she described as a 'generic call to action' post regarding the BLM movement.

However, she later claimed Jessica 'took offence' to the post.

In a follow-up video, Sasha said: 'What happened next was a series of very problematic behaviour and antics [...]'

Jessica is believed to have met Meghan in 2011, while the actress lived in Toronto to work on the hit legal drama Suits. Duo pictured in 2015

'I'm by no means calling Jess a racist but what I will say is this: She is very well aware of her wealth, perceived power and privilege because of the colour of her skin and that, my friends, gave her the momentary confidence to come for my livelihood in writing. Textbook white privilege really, in my personal opinion.'

Following the blogger's claims, Jessica issued three public apologies, however she still faced consequences and was dropped by numerous television networks.

DailyMail.com exclusively revealed that ABC severed ties with her, confirming that Jessica would not be returning to her occasional role as a fashion contributor on Good Morning America.

Canadian TV network CTV also cut off ties with the stylist, revealing that it would be pulling all episodes of her wedding-themed reality TV show I Do Redo from its platform.

Since then, Jessica has not commented on rumours of her drifting apart from Meghan, but it's clear the relationship has cooled.

Meghan and Jess previously took sun-soaked trips to Positano, gushed about one another on social media, and were pictured at a number of high-profile events together.

The pair were so close Meghan phoned the stylist the night Harry proposed - before having her play a key role in her royal wedding.

The two have not been seen together publicly and Jessica did not feature in the couple's Netflix series, in which other friends of Harry and Meghan were interviewed.