In recent years, cakes have evolved from tasty treats to works of art, showcasing the talent of the baker as they decorate their delicious bakes with increasingly believable features.

It is no longer enough to be a talented cook, but now, to make truly impressive bakes, you have to be an artist too.

Some of the creations of these show-stopping bakers are truly a feast for the eye - as well as the tastebuds.

Now Bored Panda has showcased some of the best photos of impressive bakes from North America into a mouth-watering gallery.

Be warned - you might find yourself truly believing some of these cakes are something entirely different, as your mind deceives you.

Is there anything better for breakfast than a big stack of pancakes? There is! A cake designed to look like a stack of pancakes

One of the amazing images shows a pile of filthy dish clothes for wiping down the kitchen sink - or does it?

Meanwhile, another image shows a delicious looking stack of pancakes - but is it really pancakes? It's tasty either way!

Here, FEMAIL presents some of the most impressive show stopping bakes that will leave you scratching your head...

The creator of this US-based cake would surely be furious if you accidentally grabbed it to mop up some mess

Now THAT is some impressive decoration! This cake, which incorporates dulce de leche and banoffee, has been designed so well, it doesn't even look real

Who could get annoyed with a sweet little pup for taking a little nibble out of this cake? A talented baker and artist added a mischievous golden retriever to their cake

It's often said that the perfect accompaniment to cake is a good old game of chess - which you can play with fondant icing before scoffing this bake

Who could fail to love this cheeky little fella. That icing technique is impressive - but it might be difficult to cut into Elmo's face

Want treat for an art looker? Look no further. This Vincent Van Gogh show stopper is bound to impressive any treat lover

And now for something a little more...outdoorsy. This cake takes the idea of the chocolate log to the next - and equally delicious - level

You have to know your audience when baking - and the recipient of this show stopper is clearly a Lego lover too

Can't decide whether to gift someone flowers or a cake? How about both? This beautiful cake is decorated to look like a bunch of tulips

Would you be tempted to check the spikes on all these cacti before you but into this succulent cake?