A Taylor Swift fan has shared how she managed to nab seats in the 10th row at the Eras Tour concert, claiming premium tickets about 30 rows closer than their original positions.

Attending the Friday night show at the Melbourne Cricket Ground, the Adelaide woman said her and her group of four originally had tickets 'pretty far back' in row P of section B1.

Sharing her experience under the TikTok handle @ebboonnyy, she said she was told by a security guard that they could sit in any seats not occupied during the show.

'He was like: "If you find an empty seat in the A section, just take it. I won't tell anyone like no one's gonna care. No one's gonna check".'

Her group ended up sitting in row seven during Sabrina Carpenter's set, as she opened the concert.

A Taylor Swift fan has shared how she managed to nab seats in the 10th row at the Eras Tour concert, claiming premium tickets about 30 rows closer than their original positions. Pictured: Swift

Attending the Friday night show at the Melbourne Cricket Ground, the Adelaide woman said her and her group of four originally had tickets 'pretty far back' in row P of section B1

While the seats were originally claimed by the ticketholders, she then discovered an entirely vacated section in 'row nine or 10'.

She also told other Swifties to employ the same tactics.

'If you are feeling confident, go and snatch those f***ing seats,' she said.

'Try your luck, do whatever you f***ing can. Don't stay where you are because it's a missed opportunity.'

Despite her positive experience, she questioned why the in-demand seats had been left empty.

'We ended up being in a section that was $1200 or $1500, which is absolutely unreal and kind of disgusting that there was an entire row that close when people would literally sell their souls and die for these tickets,' she said.

Sharing her experience under the TikTok handle @ebboonnyy, she said she was told by a security guard that they could sit in any seats not occupied during the show

One commenter theorised the empty seats might have been purchased by ticket scalpers who were unable to fill the spots.

'I think the empty seats might be tickets scalpers bought and didn't sell? I was section M21 and there was like four empty seats right behind me and then eight empty seats in another row,' they said.

Another TikTok user said she had used a similar tactic.

'I went last night and was on the floor at the back. Went all the way down the front and just kept walking ... three rows from stage,' they shared.

Swift will play her final Melbourne show on Sunday night, before taking her sold-out tour to Sydney for four shows from February 23 to February 26.