Jackie 'O' Henderson made sure all eyes were on her as she stepped out for her 49th birthday party on Saturday.

The radio queen, who turned 49 on January 31, kicked off celebrations by hosting a lavish boat party with celebrity guests and close family and friends on Sydney Harbour.

She was all smiles as she arrived at Circular Quay with her daughter Kitty, 13, ahead of the super yacht Ghost 11's departure.

Jackie showed off her trim figure in a $595 Christopher Esber T-shirt that featured 'crushed' fabric and ripe bananas printed on the front.

She paired her look with a micro mini-skirt of the same design, which retails at $495.

Jackie 'O' Henderson made sure all eyes were on her as she stepped out for her 49th birthday party on Saturday

The radio queen, who turned 49 on January 31, kicked off celebrations by hosting a lavish boat party surrounded by a slew of celebrity guests on Sydney Harbour.

Accessorising with bright yellow sunglasses, Jackie also rocked nude strappy heels and a small white handbag.

The blonde beauty had her hair styled in a chic half ponytail, showing off her bold gold earrings.

Jackie's daughter Kitty echoed her look in a satin yellow dress, while her hair was slicked back in a tight high ponytail.

Kyle Sandilands and his wife Tegan Kynaston lead the arrivals at the boat's meetup point.

Jackie wore a $595 Christopher Esber T-shirt that featured 'crushed' fabric and ripe bananas printed on the front. She paired her look with a micro mini skirt of the same design, which retails at $495

Jackie's daughter Kitty (left) echoed her look in a satin yellow dress, while her hair was slicked back in a tight high ponytail

Kyle Sandilands and his wife Tegan Kynaston lead the arrivals at the boat's meetup point. Both pictured

Kyle looked boat party read in a pale blue collared shirt and navy shorts

The 52-year-old radio shock jock, who co-hosts the Kyle and Jackie O show, looked boat party ready in a pale blue collared shirt that featured pink and yellow floral detailing.

He paired his look with navy shorts, black sneakers and sunglasses.

Meanwhile, Tegan looked stunning in a black, white and gold mini-dress.

The mother-of-one showed off her ample cleavage with a very plunging neckline that ended just above her belly button while completing the outfit with a pair of chunky black heels.

Jackie was thrilled to see her radio co-host upon his arrival

Kyle threw his arms around Jackie as the pair shared a warm embrace

Her hair was loosely curled in a soft wave and she accessorised with thick, black sunglasses and a subtle but elegant wristwatch.

Jackie was thrilled to see her radio co-host upon his arrival as Kyle threw his arms around her, sharing a warm embrace.

John Ibrahim and his partner Sarah Budge were also among the big names at the party.

John Ibrahim with partner Sarah Budge were among the big names at the party

The pair were seen chatting with Kyle, who appeared to be smoking a cigarette before boarding the boat and chatting onboard with other guests

The trio looked to be having a very animated conversation

The pair were seen chatting with Kyle, who appeared to be smoking a cigarette before boarding the boat and chatting onboard with other guests.

P.E Nation co-founder Pip Edwards was also at the party, wearing brown cargo pants and a loose fitted green, black and white top.

Jackie's bestie Gemma O'Neill wowed in a figure-hugging black dress that featured red, yellow and turquoise patterns, as well and silver rings running down the side of her leg.

Her hair was styled in loose curls and a middle part, while she accessorised with transparent, green-tinted sunglasses.

Pip Edwards stepped out in brown cargo pants and a green, black and white loose fitted top

Kyle's close friend and drug trafficker Simon Main is pictured boarding the superyacht with his partner

Jackie's bestie Gemma O'Neill wowed in a figure-hugging black dress that featured red, yellow and turquoise patterns

Jackie's party has been the talk of the town for the past month. In January, she was forced to play the role of mediator when her radio colleagues began stressing out about whether they would be able to attend the birthday party.

The media personality revealed on The Kyle and Jackie O Show that tensions had surfaced as several of her co-workers were double-booked on the day of her bash.

'You're all invited to Jackie's boat party. There's a few people that you're questioning if they're locked in or not, they're wishy-washy,' co-host Kyle said at the time.

Jackie's party has been the talk of the town for the past month

In January, she was forced to play the role of mediator when her radio colleagues began stressing out about whether they would be able to attend the birthday party

'Can everybody just relax? Everyone has been really committed about it except for two people, our producer Pedro, who never wants to socialise, and Intern Pete, who has something else on,' Jackie responded.

Jackie said the pair were worried about not being able to attend, which was causing some chaos in the studio.

The blonde beauty then reassured her two co-workers that while she would love them to attend there would be no hard feelings if they couldn't.

'It's okay, there's no pressure. It doesn't matter if you're there or not but you will be missed,' she said.

'We would love you both there but it's totally fine if you're not. Don't feel bad or anything.'

Pip was seen sipping on champagne while chatting with the birthday girl

Jackie did the rounds and made sure she spoke with all her guests

The pair thanked Jackie for putting their minds at ease and promised her they would do their best to make it.

Jackie turned 49 in January and recently reflected on how she stays looking so youthful.

Speaking with Daily Mail Australia at Luke McLeod's book launch for Everyday Enlightenment, being happy and positive has helped her look so young.

'I'm a smoker of all things and I haven't really looked after my body over the years,' she revealed.

'But I've always been a very, positive kind of person and generally happy. I couldn't attribute [my youthful looks] to anything else, to be honest.'

Kyle and John posed for photos together on the superyacht

Guests seemed to enjoy Jackie's big day out on the water

Tegan carried a black leather Louis Vuitton handbag and was seen having a long chat with Jackie and Gemma

She also revealed how meditation has helped her alleviate a lot of stress over the years.

'I think that meditation for sure gets you to a much calmer, joyful place in your life and that alleviates a lot of stress,' Jackie said.

'And as we know, stress is the number one factor for ageing and health problems in general. So I'm big believer in meditation.'

Jackie also said she is excited about turning 50 next year and is 'grateful' for what she's achieved.

'I've had a wonderful life and I really appreciate what I do have in my life. I'm grateful that I've lived 50 years and so I'm not afraid of it at all,' she said.

'I'm happy to embrace it as every decade brings something new.'

Jackie turned 49 in January and recently reflected on how she stays looking so youthful

Jackie was so happy with the amazing turnout

Several KIIS FM radio staff appeared to attend the event, including newsreader Brooklyn Ross