SHOPPING – Contains affiliated content. Products featured in this article are selected by our writers. If you make a purchase using links on this page, Daily Mail Australia will earn an affiliate commission. Click here for more information.

A top Australian beauty founder has broken down the five rules those who live the longest follow - and her own life and diet secrets at 51 years old.

Carla Oates, the founder of The Beauty Chef, shared her key takeaways inspired by Live to 100: Secrets of the Blue Zones, a film where journalist Dan Buettner visits the five places in the world with the most centenarians (those aged 100 or older).

The zones include Okinawa, Japan, Sardinia, Italy, Nicoya, Costa Rica, Ikaria, Greece and Loma Linda, California. Those who live in each share a number of behaviours that are thought to contribute to their above average life spans.

These include a plant-heavy diet, regular physical activity, mindful alcohol consumption, ideal sleep habits and active social lives/communities.

'Although relocating to a remote island sounds quite dreamy, the key to good health and longevity lies within the lifestyle habits. Here are the top five shared traits that you can easily try no matter where you live,' Carla said.

A top Australian beauty founder (pictured) has broken down the five rules those who live the longest follow for optimal health - and the beauty and diet secrets she follows at 51 years old

Embrace a plant-heavy diet

Wholegrains and beans dominate meals within the Blue Zones, combined with seasonal fruits and vegetables.

Across all five zones, plant-based foods make up 95 per cent of their diet on average. Pork, chicken and lamb are also consumed in some areas in small amounts.

As a result, these diets are packed full of fibre and prebiotics which encourage greater gut health and microbiome diversity.

Move often, daily

Buettner's team observed that people within the Blue Zones were nudged to move approximately every 20 minutes. These movements were not necessarily exercise but natural, everyday motions from things like gardening, kneading bread, operating tools, dancing and walking.

Outside of the Blue Zones, physical activity has been shown to improve mortality. In a study of over 60,000 people, those who did 150 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise a week, compared to those who did none, had a 20 per cent lower mortality rate.

Wine is often the drink of choice and consumed with friends over food rather than consumed in excess in Blue Zones

Drink mindfully

With the exception of the Adventists in California, people in Blue Zones drink moderately - up to one drink daily for women and two for men.

Wine is often the drink of choice and consumed with friends over food rather than consumed in excess.

Sardinians are particularly known for their robust regional red wine called Cannonau, which has two to three times the level flavonoids (a source of antioxidants) as other wines.

Keeping socially connected was another shared commonality among all the Blue Zones. In Ikaria, Sardinia and Nicoya, people frequently stop to chat to neighbours as they pass by and often connect with friends at daily happy hours

Prioritise sleep

Approximately one in three Australian adults aren't getting the minimum recommended amount of seven hours of sleep a night.

Meanwhile, people in the Blue Zones rise with sun and sleep with the night, reaching seven to nine hours regularly. In Ikaria and Sardinia, daytime napping is also common and there is evidence to suggest a short nap can boost brain health.

Make time for community

Keeping socially connected was another shared commonality among all the Blue Zones. In Ikaria, Sardinia and Nicoya, people frequently stop to chat to neighbours as they pass by and often connect with friends at daily happy hours.

Roughly half of Okinawans also belong to a 'moai' - a group of individuals who meet weekly or more to share hobbies, interests and support each other.

Considering research has linked loneliness and social isolation to a variety of health and mental conditions, there are plenty of positives to staying connected.