Nine months after documents were filed to end their marriage, Kevin Costner and his ex-wife Christine Baumgartner have settled their divorce and finalized the judgment.

The warring exes have signed and filed with the court a Marital Settlement Agreement, according to legal documents obtained by TMZ.

As Baumgartner filed divorce documents back in May 2023, the case is now considered done. California has a waiting period of six months for divorce finalizations, and Baumgartner's filing was done nine months ago.

As of now, the settlement details remain unknown however TMZ reports the couple's prenup was validated by the judge.

Costner and Baumgartner both sought joint custody of their three children and Baumgartner is receiving $63,209 a month in child support from her ex.

Nine months after documents were filed to end their marriage, Kevin Costner and his ex-wife Christine Baumgartner have settled their divorce and finalized the judgment

The settlement was signed by Costner, Baumgartner, and their lawyers Laura Wasser and Marisa Beuoy.

The former couple have also decide to waive co-parenting classes, which are normally required.

Baumgartner filed for divorce from Costner after 18 years of marriage last year.

Following a bitter battle, Costner and Baumgartner reached a divorce settlement in September 2023. The former couple welcomed three children during the course of their marriage: Cayden, 16, Hayes, 14, and Grace, 13.

After a two-day hearing, Baumgartner was awarded $63,000-a-month in child support - a much lower amount than the $165K she had requested.

Last month, it was revealed that Baumgartner had begun dating their former neighbor Josh Connor - who is also divorced and a father of three children.

However, it has since been reported that Costner had suspected that 'something was going on between Christine and Josh,' a source informed Us Weekly in an article published last month.

The insider also added that the new couple's 'close [bond] was a real elephant in the room.'

Last year in May, Baumgartner notably filed for divorce from the Hollywood star after nearly 19 years of marriage and cited 'irreconcilable differences.'

The former couple welcomed three children during the course of their marriage: Cayden, 16, Hayes, 14, and Grace, 13

Christine cited 'irreconcilable differences' in her divorce filing; pictured May 2022

She has since moved on with the financer - and former neighbor - after the pair were first spotted together during a trip to Hawaii last year in July.

In December, Costner was also linked to singer Jewel - three months after reaching a divorce settlement.

The source also told Us Weekly that since the Oscar winner has also moved on, 'Christine doesn't think Kevin has anything to complain about.'

'Josh has been Christine's rock throughout the divorce ordeal. If Kevin has a problem with that, that's on him,' and also noted that the couple's close friendship had turned romantic 'relatively recently.'

In the midst of their divorce proceedings back in August 2023, Kevin claimed that he 'does not know for a fact' if Baumgartner had 'extramarital' affairs but stated that he had been faithful during their marriage.

In a legal request for order obtained by People at the time, the mother-of-three had asked for further documentation to prove Costner's finances.

Some of the requests included, 'expenses paid by you, or any person at your request or on your behalf, relating to any extramarital romantic relationships.'

The duo pictured at the Vanity Fair Oscar Party in 2022

In response, the star's legal team stated that the request was, 'propounded only for purposes of harassment, is overbroad as to time period and subject matter, burdensome, oppressive and impermissibly compound.'

Costner and his team also added that he 'does not know for a fact if [Christine] engaged in any "extramarital romantic relationships" before separation and, if so, whether she spent any of his money or charged any expenses in furtherance of her affair(s) on credit cards he paid.'

The star's attorneys stated, '[Kevin] has no responsive documents for "extramarital romantic relationships" in which he engaged because he engaged in none.'

According to the outlet, New York matrimonial and family law attorney, Marilyn B. Chinitz, explained that Baumgartner's request was 'not unusual.'

While in court that same month in August, she had denied dating the investor - but admitted to receiving a loan of $20,000 from Connor.

The pair were married for 18 years before Baumgartner filed to end the marriage last year; pictured 2005

She explained that she had already paid back $10,000 while the other half had been given to her parents - but stated she would pay the rest back to Connor as well.

In January, four months after the divorce settlement, DailyMail.com revealed that Baumgartner had moved on with Connor.

She had been spotted dropping off her new boyfriend at his own Montecito home in her sleek, black Range Rover following a short getaway.

Sources also revealed to DailyMail.com that the pair also celebrated Christmas together, with the financier flying her to Hawaii. Shortly before, they also whisked themselves away to NYC.

An insider stated, 'They're together and they have been for a while. They spent time before Christmas together in Hawaii while Kevin was presumably in Aspen with the kids.'

Costner and Baumgartner pictured together in 2005

'They also made a trip to New York together. She hasn't been doing much to hide what’s going on from her friends.'

The source added that the new couple had met through their own daughters who are friends.

Baumgartner and Connor were first pictured together during a trip to Hawaii last year in July - only two months after she filed for divorce from Costner.

In December, Costner was romantically linked to singer Jewel, with a source telling People, 'The relationship between Kevin and Jewel is fresh but not brand new. There is very big attraction on both sides.'

'Jewel likes Kevin's type and Kevin likes to be in a relationship, so this is cool,' the insider continued. 'He is having fun after his contentious divorce. He is glad that is over.'

A separate source also told DailyMail.com exclusively that the two are, 'not serious right now,' but are enjoying their time together.

'Jewel likes herself a man's man and she is all about Kevin’s country western vibe. They are having fun.'