Two episodes will air every Friday with the first two released on February 16

The New England Patriots' era of triumph has been well-documented but Apple TV+'s 'Dynasty' goes above and beyond to tell the tale behind the headlines. And it’s one of a villain origin story.

The Patriots were one of the most secretive NFL franchises under Bill Belichick. Yet, Apple filmmakers have managed to convince more than 25 players, coaches and executives to open up on camera, including owner Robert Kraft, Belichick himself, and, of course, Tom Brady.

The 2023 NFL season turned out to be Belichick's Last Dance in New England but Apple's latest series blows the dust off his golden years.

The docuseries, the first two episodes of which began streaming on Friday and is based on the 2020 book by renowned author Jeff Benedict, follows the Patriots' arc from Cinderella story to evil empire.

That's according to director Matthew Hamachek, who tells DailyMail.com that it's a tale that even non-football fans can be attracted to.

Apple TV+'s 'Dynasty' follows the New England Patriots and Tom Brady's rise to the top

Director Matthew Hamachek spoke to DailyMail.com about the making of the series

The first two episode of the 10-part docuseries premiered on the streaming platform Friday

'I like to call it Shakespeare with football,' he says. 'It's a much more universal story. I think if you could care less about football, you can watch this thing and say, "Oh, that's fascinating. I can't wait to see this roller coaster ride."'

A roller coaster is a good way of describing that period of the Patriots' history, which saw the franchise go from the depths of the NFL to the dizzying heights of multiple Super Bowl victories to crashing back down to earth.

'What is the human story, and what is the larger story here that really has nothing to do with sports?' Hamachek says as he explains his process behind the documentary.

'What I found is a story about a group of people coming together and doing this very rare thing, which is being selfless and going from the bad news bearers of the NFL into a dynasty that wins three in four years.

'It is like you're on a roller coaster, and you're slowly getting pulled up to the top. And then, just when they get to the top, and they're about to peer over the edge of it, that's when things become more complicated.

'Everybody was sitting around going, these guys are winning a little too much for my liking. Then all of a sudden the Spygate story happens, and they're dubbed the evil empire.

'The story is about a team that was founded on the idea of selflessness, and then all of a sudden ego and all these other things start to come in. And that's the thing that ultimately leads to the unravelling of the dynasty.

'One of our editors said it's like you're on the Death Star watching the evil empire go from planet to planet destroying everybody in their path, but instead of it being somber, they're having a party.'

It was one hell of a ride and one that saw Brady and co go from underdog heroes to reviled stormtroopers aboard the Death Star.

Seven-time Super Bowl winning quarterback Brady is pictured with owner Robert Kraft

Cardinals fan wearing a deflated football hat hold up a sign referencing Deflategate

'When I was interviewing Michael Strahan, we started to talk about the Christopher Nolan Batman movies,' Hamachek says. 'We were talking about that line, "You either die a hero, or you live long enough to see yourself becoming a villain." I think that line applies to the Patriots.

'If they had just won one Super Bowl, like most teams, nobody would have ever called them the evil empire. But they kept winning, and they kept winning and they lived long enough to become the villain.'

But 'Dynasty' also captures the Patriots' selfless mentality of 'for the team' in their early Super Bowl victories to almost robotic and joyless displays towards the end of the two-decade span.

Brady and Belichick won six Super Bowls with New England until the quarterback left for Tampa Bay in 2020. The Patriots have had only one winning season since.

But the Patriots - and Belichick and Brady's relationship - began unraveling long before.

It has long been believed that Belichick's refusal to hand Brady the two-year, $50 million contract the legendary quarterback wanted was the main reason behind his departure.

But 'Dynasty' reveals just how far Brady and Belichick's relationship had deteriorated with the signal caller making it clear that his New England exit was more to do with the coaching than the money.

And Hamachek reveals that Brady's candor was one of the most eye-opening things about making the documentary

'Dynasty' reveals just how far Brady and coach Bill Belichick's relationship had deteriorated

Hamachek reveals that Brady's candor was one of the most eye-opening things of the series

'I think that one of the things that I was surprised by, with Tom in particular, is how can how candid he was, but also how vulnerable he was in the telling of this story, you really see the emotion on his face,' Hamachek reveals. 'And not only how difficult it was at times, but how much it meant to him. He really gets emotional at points talking about it.

'What you see there is a person who went through this incredibly complicated story, and how much it meant to him. But also how complex and nuanced it was for everybody that was involved. Not only those two, but also all the people that witnessed it.'

Hamachek mined more than 35,000 hours of footage and spoke to countless witnesses to the Patriots' dynasty, from those on the field, to those in the back office to family memebers. In doing so, he was presented with the opportunity to uncover the truth and also some surprises, including an anecdote involving Rupert Murdoch, Vladimir Putin and Kraft's Super Bowl ring.

'We normally just hear from Bill and Brady because they're the boldface names,' Hamachek explains. 'But this is an opportunity to really hear from everybody in the building and all of the players that came through as well as the rivals, and even people who you'd be surprised by, like Rupert Murdoch.

'You'd say, "What the heck does he have to do with the Patriot story?" And then all of a sudden, you get to hear this incredible story about him and Robert [Kraft], going to Russia and Putin, depending on who you ask, either borrowing or swiping, Robert's Super Bowl ring.'

'Dynasty' delivers on its promise to leave no aspect of the Patriots' era of dominance uncovered.

The first two episodes cover Brady's rise to prominence at the expense of the Patriots' then-franchise quarterback Drew Bledsoe.

Bledsoe openly and emotionally details the hit that left him with injuries, which if not treated in the emergency room 'probably would have left him dead.'

Then-franchise quarterback Drew Bledsoe emotionally spoke of being replaced by Brady

Belichick's refusal to hand Brady a two-year, $50 million contract was believed to be the reason behind the quarterback's departure from New England

They also provide a copious amount of never-before-seen footage of the 24-year-old Brady away from the stadium with teammates like Dave Nugent - his housemate at the time.

Ty Law and Tedy Bruschi are expert storytellers, while Randy Moss leaves viewers in stitches, likening himself to Forrest Gump.

But alongside the light-hearted episodes, three also cover the darker moments, including the controversies that were Spygate and Deflategate, and Aaron Hernandez, the former Patriots tight end who killed himself in prison in 2017.

And even those topics are covered in depth with an emotional Kraft opening up on how he was 'snookered' by Hernandez.

The most closed-off an interviewee gets is in episode four, titled 'Spygate', when football researcher Ernie Adams claims the details of the scandal are going to the grave with him - only to unload in the next breath.

Kraft rounds off the series by claiming his team's feat will never be repeated. But the premier of 'Dynasty' comes less than a week after the Kansas City Chiefs won Super Bowl LVIII - their third in five years - and staked their claim to a dynasty of their own.

Yet, Hamachek claims it's too early to look at the legacy unfolding in Kansas City.

'They're at the top of the roller coaster,' Hamachek says. 'The question is, do they just very effortlessly keep going up, up, up? Where do they start to face some of the complications that the Patriots do? I have literally no idea.

Former wide receiver Randy Moss leaves viewers in stitches, likening himself to Forrest Gump

Kraft shares an anecdote about his Super Bowl ring and Valdimir Putin

Kraft shakes had with Russian president Putin, who holds his Super Bowl ring, in 2005

Ernie Adams claims the details of the scandal are going to the grave with him

'We all want to cover these stories in the moment, and feel like we're able to say definitively, this is what's going on. But sometimes you need the time of the past in order to be able to do these things the right way.

'That's what's so great about our story is that it took place over 20 years. We had a chance to really talk to these people, a lot of whom had never really talked about any of the stuff on the record before and really go in depth. That's what a 10 part series affords you the ability to do.'

Hamachek does an admirable of capturing 20 years of footballing legacy, whether it be the good, the bad or the ugly.

Football fan or not, the NFL's answer to Shakespeare delivers.