Kate Beckinsale posed up a storm as she joined the stars arriving at the British Vogue And Tiffany & Co. Celebrate Fashion And Film Party 2024 at Annabel's on Sunday evening.

The actress, 50, turned heads as she wowed in a daring black dress which featured a lace bodice.

The high-legged corset then flowed into a long black train skirt.

Kate kept a serious expression after her late stepfather Roy Battersby was not included in the In Memoriam segment during the 77th British Academy Film Awards at the Royal Festival Hall.

Gripping the hand of a friend, the star piled her blonde locks away from her face in an elegant up do complete with a large black bow.

Kate Beckinsale, 50, turned heads at the British Vogue And Tiffany & Co. Celebrate Fashion And Film Party 2024 at Annabel's on Sunday evening

The actress wowed in a daring black dress which featured a lace bodice

Last month Kate hit out at BAFTA bosses in a furious Instagram post, in the wake of her TV director stepfather Roy's death at the age of 87.

A few days prior, British actress Kate had confirmed her TV director stepfather's death with a video montage, which included a quick announcement that he had died.

Kate revealed she had spoken to BAFTA bosses about Roy's inclusion in the show's In Memoriam segment, in which stars and industry members are honoured, but was told they could not guarantee he would appear.

During the ceremony at the weekend, Hannah Waddingham performed a pared down version of Cyndi Lauper's Time After Time in the in memoriam segment of the Baftas, which featured tributes many stars, but Roy did not feature.

MailOnline has contacted BAFTA for comment.

Among the names included were actresses Jane Birkin, Glynis Johns, Shirley Anne Field and Piper Laurie, and actors Julian Sands, Richard Roundtree

Film critic Derek Malcolm, drama teacher Anna Scher, South Korean actor Lee Syun-Kyun, screenwriter and playwright Bo Goldman, film director and television producer William Friedkin and filmmaker Horace Ové were also included.

Also featured was singer Tina Turner, actress and politician Glenda Jackson, actor Carl Weathers, film producer Paul Hitchcock, singer and actor Harry Belafonte and actor Sir Michael Gambon, among others.

The star piled her blonde locks away from her face in an elegant up do complete with a large black bow

The upper half of the star's dress was a gorgeous intricate lace bodice

Kate's late stepfather Roy Battersby was not included in the In Memoriam segment during the 77th British Academy Film Awards at the Royal Festival Hall in London on Sunday

Gripping her friend's hand, Kate flashed plenty of skin before the dress flowed down into a long train skirt

Kate completed the look with some huge silver diamond earrings

Kate looked slightly deflated as she sat in the car ready to head home

Alongside an image of Roy from 1996, when he won Alan Clarke Award, Kate wrote on social media last month: 'BAFTA told me they could not guarantee he would be included “in memoriam”... So a man dead less than a week has to audition to decide if his death is worth mentioning.'

Kate confessed she was 'paralysed, sick and sickened' by the decision from BAFTA, given Roy's vast body of work, and his achievement award from the Academy.

In her caption, she wrote: 'Here is a photo just after I presented my stepdad with the lifetime achievement BAFTA for his incredible work in television from Colin Welland’s “Leeds United!” about the first all female strike in the clothing trade...

'”Roll on Four o clock “, the documentary “The Body” with music by Roger Waters and commentary by the poet Adrian Mitchell , the first seven episodes of the ground breaking “Tomorrow’s World” to Cracker...

'Between the lines, Inspector Morse, A Touch of Frost ,the first Edward Bond play ever written for television starring the late Bernard Hill and the late , mesmerising Charlotte Coleman and countless others...

'Today BAFTA told me they could not guarantee he would be included in their “in memoriam” tribute , to honour the industry members we have lost...

Last month, Kate took to Instagram to reveal she had spoken to bosses about Roy's inclusion in the show's In Memoriam segment, in which stars and industry members are honoured

During the ceremony at the weekend, Hannah Waddingham performed a pared down version of Cyndi Lauper 's Time After Time in the in memoriam segment

'So a man dead less than a week somehow has to audition in front of a committee after a decades long career in which he has been awarded from said organisation (that has awarded him the highest accolade they have )to decide if his death is worth mentioning...

'If his work, his life ,his craft ,his mentoring , his heart and soul are worthy of a mention that he is gone . That , that has broken my heart all over again . I am paralysed ,sick and sickened and I will honour him and his work every day of my life.'

When contacted by MailOnline, a BAFTA spokesperson said: 'We were very sorry to hear of Roy Battersby’s recent passing - he was a renowned and trailblazing director.

'Roy Battersby was awarded the Alan Clarke Award in 1996, a BAFTA Special Television Award.

'We confirm he will be honoured in our forthcoming BAFTA Television Awards in May, and on the In Memoriam Section on our website.'

Kate urged the BAFTA board to change their email policy following her communications with them.

He died Wednesday, January 10, at the age of 87. The British actress, 50, has been quietly been caring for Roy and her mother Judy Loe in recent months (pictured in 2021)

Roy was hospitalised in Los Angeles after suffering 'a massive stroke' while battling two forms of cancer, which he was diagnosed with in summer 2023

The star confessed she was 'paralysed, sick and sickened' after receiving a 'very cold email' from the organisation.

She claimed other family members of people in the film industry' had received equally blunt emails and revealed she had still not received an apology.

Kate shared a snap of a text message from an unknown person, which read: 'Hi Kate, I spoke with CEO of BAFTA, who is of course extremely apologetic. She's very sorry about the email and for what it caused.'

'I am hoping they figure out a way to make this up to you, but so far they have just asked that I relay their apologies'.

In a lengthy caption she wrote: 'First of all, thank you to all of you who have expressed their support and outrage for the coldly worded email from BAFTA that so upset me and my family.

'Roy would have been blown away and moved to tears and it is unbearable to me that he was not able to see the amazing loving messages you have left.

'Second, you may be aware that BAFTA has said he will be included in their segment. I have not heard from them, they have not apologised to me publicly or personally and just asked that my publicist relay an apology.'

Kate continued: 'I have received far too many DMs from family members of people in the British film industry who have passed away who received similarly cold emails and were equally distressed by them.

The actress was left distraught after being informed Roy, who was presented with Alan Clarke Award by BAFTA in 1996, may not be included in the Award ceremony's In Memoriam segment (pictured with her mother Judy Loe)

Kate took to Instagram to share a text sending her an apology from BAFTA as she slammed the organisation for not doing so publicly

'90 percent of those who work in film and TV are working class people who are not necessarily well paid or particularly well treated.

'In lieu of an apology which is now redundant, I would like a public and permanent assurance that BAFTA make a major change to their policy of wording emails to anyone who has been bereaved; whether that person is a DP,a sound or vfx technician, costume department, editor, electrician ,grip or carpenter, let alone someone honoured in the way Roy had been.

'These people make up the heart and soul of our industry and it is a vocation. They routinely have to sacrifice time with their families, missing important events, anniversaries, being abroad for school plays or right up to Christmas, unable to care as they’d like to for sick relatives because they have to work extremely long hours to feed their families.

'If BAFTA truly is an organisation that celebrates those who work in this industry , I want an assurance that this is the last time they send the family of ANY of its workers an email with such a dismissive and cold tone , whether ultimately the person in question is able to be included in the segment or not.'

She added: 'And if not, the email needs to be doubly compassionate and celebratory of their contribution. My stepfather knew the name of every single person working on his set , from camera operator to caterer , and once stopped production because the focus puller hadn’t been paid . This is what he would have wanted. Thank you again x.'

The actress took to social media to honour the patriarch, who was hospitalised in LA last month after suffering 'a massive stroke' while battling two forms of cancer, which were diagnosed in summer 2023.

Kate wrote: ' First of all, thank you to all of you who have expressed their support and outrage for the coldly worded email from BAFTA that so upset me and my family'

Kate's mother Judy married Roy 18 years after Kate's father, Porridge star Richard Beckinsale, died.

Roy enjoyed his own successful career as a director, working on major British on-screen hits including Inspector Morse and Cracker. His most recent directorial credit was for a 2006 episode of A Touch Of Frost.

Kate's Instagram post included an announcement about her stepfather's death on Wednesday.

It noted that his funeral would be held back in London, with details forthcoming.

'I have no words yet,' Kate captioned the video, before thanking a fan account for editing it. 'Oh Roy I am so sorry I lost.'

The clip opened with a moving recording of Roy recalling how he was forced to hide in a shelter during the Blitz early in World War II as Nazi bombs rained down.

He called the eventually announced of Victory in Europe Day a 'wonderful thing,' because it meant no more hiding in shelters, and young men no longer had to leave their families to go off to fight across the continent.

Kate's actress mother Judy Loe married Roy in 1997, 18 years after Kate's father, Porridge star Richard Beckinsale, died; seen in 1986

The video also featured several sweet photos of Kate with her stepfather and her mother, including a hilarious photo showing her and Roy beaming at each other while holding playfully insulting tea cups.

Kate rushed from the Golden Globes ceremony on Sunday January 7 to the hospital, sharing photos of herself on the red carpet and by Roy's bedside with the caption: 'Golden globes 2024 start to end.'

She was still clad in her glamorous Atelier Zuhra gown for the hospital visit, as she ate a burger and chatted to her friends and family in Roy's room.

Her friends and followers were quick to check in on the star, with one commenting: 'I don’t know how you made it through last night with all that is going on. You are strong and a consummate pro.

'Having to leave the side of your beautiful Roy to honor this commitment at the Globes was above and beyond. Sending love and prayers to you and your family. I’m so happy you were able to make it back to the hospital. ❤️'

Kate responded: 'thank you and thank you for your supportive texts all the way through. That was so kind xx'

Kate's mother Judy Loe's has been fighting her own private health battle. The 76-year-old was diagnosed with a longstanding illness six years ago — something Kate has alluded to in several emotional Instagram posts over the past year.

Kate shared a video montage to Instagram, which included an announcement about her stepfather's death. It noted that his funeral would be held in London

Kate rushed from the Golden Globes ceremony on Sunday January 7 to the hospital, sharing photos of herself on the red carpet and by Roy's bedside

Her friends and followers were quick to check in on the star, with one commenting: 'I don’t know how you made it through last night'

The tribute video opened with Roy recalling his struggles hiding in shelters during the Blitz in World War II and his elation after VE Day was declared

Kate appeared to have fun pestering her stepfather in another sweetly unguarded photo

She was still clad in her glamorous Atelier Zuhra gown for the hospital visit, as she ate a burger and chatted to her friends and family in Roy's room

The Underworld actress flew Judy and Roy out to the US from their home in the UK so she could care for them full-time at her Los Angeles home.

'Kate has been caring for her parents, who both have serious illnesses, for most of the year,' a source exclusively revealed to DailyMail.com late last year. 'She brought them to her home in LA and has made looking after them her number one priority.'

The insider revealed that the Snow Angels star — whose biological father Richard Beckinsale died in 1979 at 31 from a heart attack in his sleep — has been feeling the emotional toll in recent months.

'She was spotted this week several times crying in the corridors of UCLA hospital,' the source added. 'Her friends are very concerned that she has been under relentless strain for months and hardly sleeping or eating.

'Kate appears to be very strong but this has been incredibly hard and, given that she lost her father so young, is affecting her very deeply. Her friends are concerned for her own health.'

A second source explained that her mother Judy has chosen to keep her health battle private, stating: 'She's extraordinary, you wouldn't even know by looking at her. She has been keeping a very positive attitude throughout everything.'

Kate's biological father Richard Beckinsale was best known for his roles as Lennie Godber in the BBC sitcom Porridge and Alan Moore in the ITV sitcom Rising Damp.

He also had a daughter — Samantha, 55 — who is his only child from his marriage to Margaret Bradley.

Kate has alluded to her parents' ailing health online in recent months, sharing images of her mother undergoing treatment in hospital.

In August she encouraged fans to do what makes them happy in the Instagram caption, writing: 'Embrace joy. Accept grief. Wear feathers. Sing. Do what makes you feel happy even for a moment. Pair grief and sickness and fear with as much life and laughter and celebration as you possibly can.

'It doesn’t mean you are having some sort of crisis. It means you are choosing life, fiercely. Be brave, and when you don’t feel brave, listen. Laugh hard, dance hard, cry hard, love hard with those you trust.'

Kate has alluded to recent struggles in emotional Instagram posts about her parents over the past year; pictured in November 2023

Kate previously shared a snap of Roy undergoing treatment in hospital

Her 76-year-old mom has been privately battling her own illness for the past six years

Kate's close bond with her parents has been a source of delight for social media fans who often share messages of praise for the family's visible love for one another

Roy enjoyed a successful career as a director, working on major British screen hits including Inspector Morse and Cracker. His most recent directorial credit was for a 2006 episode of A Touch Of Frost; pictured with his Alan Clarke Award at the 1996 Bafta Craft Awards

She continued: 'Spread love when you can. Read. Stay in bed and cry when it’s from all sides and feels like an avalanche. Try not to be mean, or to take on others meanness. People can break.

'Be kind. Fight with everything you’ve got for your loved ones , and for your own spirit x.'

However, the Much Ado About Nothing actress has been determined to put on a brave face and do all she can to continue supporting her loved ones during this difficult time.

'Kate has been attempting to maintain a positive public and professional presence, and remain upbeat for her family,' the source added.