My overriding reaction when I heard Owen Farrell is in advanced talks to join Racing 92 was that it is a fantastic opportunity for him to move to Paris and take his game to another level.

Farrell can put himself under pressure to succeed in a totally different environment after spending his entire career with Saracens and England.

There are no negatives around the proposed two-year deal except for the fact it will mean he can’t play for England. That is so wrong.

The RFU should abandon their foreign selection rule. Farrell is just showing the absurdity of it all and highlighting how far behind England rugby is in its thinking and structure.

It will be a great switch for Farrell on the field as well as off it, and a great life experience for him and his young family. Everyone in English rugby should be celebrating this move.

Owen Farrell should be allowed to play for England if he signs for French club Racing 92

The move would let Farrell test himself in a completely different environment to Saracens

Instead, many are questioning it because it means under the rules he can’t play for England.

What nonsense. If Farrell — or any other player — is playing their club rugby in France or anywhere else, they should still be eligible for England.

If the rules are not changed and changed quickly, I do not think we will see Farrell playing for England again, as he has already decided to take a break from Test rugby to prioritise his and his family’s wellbeing after being subjected to abuse from supporters.

At the moment, only those employed by Premiership clubs can play in Steve Borthwick’s national side. It is an archaic policy and not reflective of the society in which we live today. It is a policy born out of a negative mindset and all about ‘defending our patch’. It sets the wrong tone.

It is no wonder we seem to keep creating teams based around defence. Meanwhile, in France, it’s about attacking.

This week, Borthwick confirmed the appointment of New Zealander Andrew Strawbridge to his backroom team. Felix Jones, who is Irish, has also joined.

I’ve got nothing against these individuals, but I find it deeply ironic England can cherry-pick coaches from all over the world yet not select English-born players who are at French clubs!

English rugby needs to realise how the national team can benefit from having players abroad.

England can have coaches from abroad such as Andrew Strawbridge but can't select English-born players at French clubs

Marcus Smith may have regrets over not signing for Racing 92 at the height of his career

Jonny Wilkinson improved at Toulon even though he went there four or five years too late

It is impossible to compare my career in the amateur era with the modern game. But I moved to Australia at 29 when I was still in the Leicester and England teams. At that time, it was work and play. I was employed by Xerox in Sydney and played for Manly. People said I was crazy to be moving. But it was the best thing I ever did.

My own experience is part of the reason why I am so against the RFU rule.

My advice to players is you don’t want to look back on your career when you’ve retired and have regrets. Moving abroad is not for everyone. But it can make you a better player and person.

I think the likes of Marcus Smith — who was targeted by Racing —will look back and think maybe they should have moved whilst playing at the height of their career.

I worked with Jonny Wilkinson for many years and even he improved when he went to Toulon, though, in reality, he went to France four or five years too late.

All the negativity around Farrell — which has led to his international break and possible Racing move — has come because he has been played too much at inside centre.

I’ve been consistent in saying that Farrell, when fit, must always be England’s No 10. He’s a world-class attacking fly-half, but nowhere near the same player at inside centre.

Farrell is a wonderful leader and team man. I think that has proved a strength, but also a weakness. He should have insisted on playing 10 and not in midfield.

Farrell is a wonderful leader - when fit he should always be the No 10 for England

Saracens will have a tough task replacing Farrell but he deserves the chance to impress in France

Had he stayed at fly-half, I think the English rugby public would have better appreciated what an unbelievable player he is.

I believe England would have won the World Cup in 2019 if Farrell had been at 10, Manu Tuilagi at 12 and Henry Slade at 13. England missed a chance in 2019 they will regret for ever.

The only regret I think Farrell will have is if, during the Six Nations, England take off the handbrake and shock us all by playing some exhilarating, attacking rugby.

It’s tough on George Ford, but Borthwick has to play Marcus Smith at No 10 in the Six Nations. Smith must be given the full campaign and the experiment of playing him at full back must end.

With Smith at 10 and enterprising young guns like Tommy Freeman, Ollie Lawrence and Will Joseph outside him, England can create a team capable of winning a World Cup.

Saracens will have a huge challenge to replace Farrell.

But I want to end by saying a big ‘bonne chance’. Anyone with a passion for English rugby should hope he thrives in France.