Lewis Hamilton’s interests may have grown away from the track in recent years and is living the glamourous lifestyle associated with being a racing driver – but the Brit has underlined that his priority remains with Formula One following the shock announcement that he's set to join Ferrari.

The 39-year-old raked in a whopping £51million last year according to Forbes, with the seven-time world champion labelled as Formula One’s most marketable asset.

And that will only grow given that he will fulfil one of the greatest dreams of his life in racing for the iconic red racing team.

While he is yet to get back to winning ways on the track, Hamilton has certainly been winning off of it.

He continued to explore his interests in the fashion and music industries, while his recently-launched production company are involved in a Hollywood blockbuster starring Brad Pitt.

Lewis Hamilton, pictured on the runaway with Naomi Campbell during London Fashion Week in 2020, boasts a growing number of interests away from Formula One

The star has branched out into music, the fashion and film industries in recent years

Hamilton was last year linked to Shakira after being pictured with the singer numerous times since her split from ex-partner Gerard Pique

His status away from the track has continued to soar further, with Hamilton last year having been linked to singer Shakira.

Hamilton had been seen with the singer numerous times since her split from ex-partner Gerard Pique. As well as enjoying boat trips together with friends in Miami, the pair also dined in Barcelona after Hamilton's second place at Grand Prix.

Shakira had also been pictured as Silverstone last year, as Hamilton finished third at the British Grand Prix.

Hamilton has admitted that his lifestyle has changed as he approaches the latter stages of his career, with his business empire expanding away from the race track.

In October, he told CNBC that expanding his business interests was vital in giving him balance.

‘When I first started in Formula One, I didn’t have any leeway to do anything else, but since I have been with Mercedes I have been more open to doing other things outside of the sport,' Hamilton said.

'Ultimately there are so many business ventures I am involved in, for example, the movie I am involved in producing for Formula One. I have a bunch of other things I am invested in and start-ups I’m invested in as well.

'I can’t race forever, and it’s good to have other things that you can be creative and tap into. You can’t be thinking about racing 24/7, because you’ll go out of your head.'

Hamilton’s involvement in the F1-inspired film marked his entry in the industry, with the driver playing a key role in casting decisions.

The star believes expanding his interests away from Formula One have helped his career

Hamilton's production company are working on a F1 film featuring Brad Pitt (centre) as the lead. The Brit shares a chat with Pitt and Apple CEO Tim Cook (right) at 2022 USA Grand Prix

Hamilton has won a joint-record amount of world titles alongside Michael Schmacher, as seen in Mail Sport's graphic provided by SofaScore

The film is one of two projects Hamilton's film and production company Dawn Apollo Films - launched in 2022 - are involved in. The second is a documentary which will chart Hamilton’s journey to becoming an F1 driver.

The Briton revealed last year that he had been playing a background role in the F1 film project, stressing the need to ensure there was diverse team to help boost the future of the sport.

Hamilton serves as a producer of the film directed by Joseph Kosinski, which features Brad Pitt as the lead with Damson Idris and Kerry Condon also included on the cast.

'I'm more enjoying the part in the background, making sure that I'm really talking to Joe about who we're hiring, making sure that it's diverse, making sure that the sport looks how it's supposed to look in the future, in terms of being more accessible,' Hamilton told Sky Sports last year.

'It's such a privilege… because we weren't racing, we spent the whole day going through the script in London. Just to be able to sit there with Joe and Jerry [Bruckheimer], who are such legends, and then sit there and watch Brad work.

'I'm learning so much through the process and have even more of an appreciation of what it takes to create a movie.'

While Hamilton may only have a cameo in the film, the star revealed he previously had to turn down a role in Top Gun's sequel in 2022 due to his Mercedes' commitments.

Hamilton has also been open in the past about his love of music and confirmed in 2020 that he had featured on a 2018 Christina Aguilera song.

He confirmed rumours that he was the mysterious XNDA who featured on the track Pipe.

'Guys, I've spent the last 10 years or more writing and recording, working with some of the most talented and beautiful people which I'm so grateful for. It's been the most incredible outlet,' Hamilton wrote on Instagram.

The F1 star revealed in 2020 he had featured on a song with Christina Aguilera two years prior

Hamilton showcased his unique sense of style at the Dior Homme runaway show

'Finding something you love so much and can do just for you, for your spirit is I think such an important process. I've come to the place where I'd love to share it with you.

'I haven't got a project or album, just a bunch of different songs that perhaps some of you will be able to connect to. They have helped me get through some of the most difficult times.

'At some stage I'm going to find a moment to share with you so bare with me.'

Hamilton had previously told Mail Sport that he approached music as a hobby, one which allowed him to show vulnerability.

Hamilton's desire for peak performance in F1 and expanding his business portfolio were central to the star launching the non-alcoholic tequila brand Almave last year, collaborating with Casa Lumbre master distiller Ivan Saldana.

He claimed the decision to stop drinking alcohol was part of his efforts to seek an 'extra one per cent' to boost performances.

Hamilton has claimed his brand will 'honour the soul of tequila' by keeping to its traditions.

'I’ve always loved a good tequila, but on days or nights when I needed a clear mind - either the night before a race or while hanging with friends- I could not find an authentic non-alcoholic option that delivered on the premium quality and experience of my favorite full-proof tequilas,' Hamilton said on Almave's website.

'And so began a relentless pursuit to create a non-alcoholic spirit that does not compromise on authenticity or quality.'

Hamilton launched a non-alcoholic tequila brand last year and has invested in the vegan fast food chain Neat Burger

He revealed last year that he had stopped drinking alcohol as he seeks an extra 'one per cent' in performance, leading to him working on the non-alcoholic brand Almave

Hamilton was part of a group to invest into the Denver Broncos NFL team back in 2022

Lewis Hamilton (right) cheered on his Denver Broncos team from the stands for the first time

Hamilton shared his excitement at joining the Broncos team by posting on Twitter

Hamilton is also a co-investor in the vegan fast food chain Neat Burger, while he became part of a group including former United States Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to invest in the Denver Broncos NFL team in August 2022.

Hamilton joined the Broncos franchise as part of the Walton-Penner family takeover.

A statement by Rob Walton, on behalf of the Walton-Penner Family Ownership Group, read: 'We're delighted to welcome seven-time Formula One world champion Sir Lewis Hamilton to our ownership group.

'He is a champion competitor who knows what it takes to lead a winning team and a fierce advocate for global equality, including in his own sport.

'His resilient spirit and standard of excellence will be an asset to the ownership group and the Broncos organization.'

Hamilton became a global ambassador for Tommy Hilfiger in 2018 with the fashion brand highlighting the star's boldness and being unafraid to take risks

The Mercedes star's fashion choices have been notable on the grid at Formula One races

Hamilton shared his excitement at becoming a part of the Broncos team by writing on his Twitter profile at the time, alongside a photo of his dog Roscoe in Broncos accessories: 'Excited to join an incredible group of owners and become a part of the @Broncos story!!'

'Honored to work with a world class team and serve as an example of the value of more diverse leadership across all sports. Roscoe already thinks he made the team.'

While his interests have grown vastly in recent years, fashion has arguably been at the top of Hamilton's priorities away from F1.

Hamilton became a global ambassador for Tommy Hilfiger in 2018, shortly after the fashion brand became a partner of Mercedes.

'Lewis is bold in everything he does,' Tommy Hilfiger told GQ after confirming the partnership with Hamilton, highlighting his appeal to the brand.

'He’s not afraid to take risks. And he has a cool and sophisticated style that really speaks to the new generation of Tommy fans.

Hamilton has launched several collections with the brand, while his fashion choices on the grid have constantly garnered attention during F1 seasons.

Hamilton is a menswear ambassador for The British Fashion Council, offering support and advice on key issues facing the British design industry. He has also been a regular attendee at leading fashion shows, including Paris Fashion Week and the Met Gala.

Hamilton strolled into the Canadian Grand Prix last year wearing a tiger striped two-piece

The British driver has shown his sense of style at leading fashion events and on the F1 grid

Lewis Hamilton is expected to secure a bombshell move from Mercedes to Ferrari

Hamilton's move to Ferrari underlines that Formula One remains the star's focus despite his multiple interests away from the sport

The Mercedes driver was listed in listed as one of Sports Illustrated’s ‘Fashionable 50 Icons’ in 2019, while he has worked with Esquire, L’Officiel, Vogue, ICON and Men’s Health.

It was perhaps no surprise the, that when Hamilton launched his non-alcoholic tequila brand, he spoke about the product in an interview with Vogue.

Hamilton's interests away from the sport have only furthered expanded F1's reach to a wider audience.

This has only been furthered by his previous high-profile relationship with Nicole Scherzinger, as well as rumours last year that Hamilton had been dating Shakira.

Despite his high-profile lifestyle, interests and social activism away from F1, Hamilton's shock move to Ferrari confirms the sport will remain his ultimate focus for the foreseeable future.

Having been controversially denied the 2021 world title in Abu Dhabi, the fire is clearly still burning bright as he chases an eighth Championship with a third constructor.