Callum Wilson's pectoral surgery and absence of up to three months could yet cost Newcastle United millions of pounds.

Why? Well, my information in January - when Atletico Madrid had a loan approach rebuffed - was that Wilson would likely move on this summer.

With his contract expiring in 2025 - and him turning 32 this month - I'm told there is an acceptance between club and player that the time could be right for a change.

I understand Wilson wants to finish his career abroad and there is plenty of interest, including from Saudi Arabia.

However, his market value will take a hit in the coming months.

Newcastle striker Callum Wilson will undergo surgery after damaging his pectoral tendon

Mail Sport understands there is interest from abroad, including Saudi Arabia, in Wilson's services as he nears the final 12 months of his deal at St. James' Park

Your browser does not support iframes.

Had he stayed fit between now and the end of the season, scored goals and, as was his wish, made the England squad for Euro 2024, Newcastle could well have commanded a fee in the region of £15-20million.

As it is, he will only return at the earliest by mid-April and, more likely, early May. Eddie Howe said on Friday he was 'hopeful' Wilson could play again this season.

The upshot is you can probably shave close to £10m off the asking price if attempting to sell a player who has hardly featured from January onwards.

Wilson is a good character and I've always found him extremely driven and engaging. His plan will be to get back as soon as possible, score a load of goals during the run-in and give Gareth Southgate a decision to make.

Either way, his future is very much uncertain, on several levels.

Tonali stuck behind closed doors

Sandro Tonali will not be allowed to feature in Newcastle's pre-season friendlies this summer, Mail Sport understands.

The Italian is also still awaiting the outcome of a Football Association investigation into whether he gambled on football AFTER his £52m move to Newcastle in the summer.

Sandro Tonali in training at Newcastle's training ground as he serves out his betting ban

Tonali is banned until late August having admitted to illegal betting during his time in his home country with Brescia and Milan.

And that suspension, handed down by Italian authorities, means he cannot feature in friendlies that are played in a public domain. He can play in behind-closed-doors games.

Tonali has used his spare time to learn English and there is hope within the club that the 10-month ban has given him time to settle and return next season better for it. That is, of course, pending news of the FA probe.

Isak could go under the knife

A whisper this week that Callum Wilson may not be the only Newcastle striker undergoing surgery, with that avenue also open to Alexander Isak this summer.

Sweden aren't at the Euros and that would give the 24-year-old the chance to address a recurring groin issue.

A lot depends on how his body holds up in the remaining months of the season, but an operation is one possibility.

Alexander Isak could have surgery on a troublesome groin injury over the summer

Isak is unlikely to make the squad for Saturday's visit of Bournemouth but, if not, he will be back for next weekend's trip to Arsenal.

A fabulous player, yes, but his absences really do affect Newcastle's momentum. Anthony Gordon will likely deputise for the injured strikers this weekend, but that robs Newcastle of one of the Premier League's best left-wingers.

Alan Shearer has long since said Newcastle need another centre forward. He can't be that far down the pecking order himself right now!

Fog on the Trent means long way home

Newcastle's recovery post-last weekend's 3-2 win at Nottingham Forest was affected slightly by a bus journey home instead of their usual flight.

Fog meant they were forced to travel by road, and they got back to Tyneside shortly after midnight heading into Sunday morning.

As one insider said, it could have been worse, their next three Premier League away games are all in London!

Newcastle got a good result at the City Ground on Saturday but it proved a long journey home

Ashworth spy saga?

One colleague during Friday's pre-match press conference with Eddie Howe raised a pertinent point to the manager - in most businesses an employee about to defect to a direct rival would be asked to leave the building.

Dan Ashworth, however, remains at St James' Park and was continuing to go about his work on Friday, when he was scheduled to lead meetings with the club's first-team scouts.

We still expect the sporting director to swap Uniteds and join Manchester, but the storyline took on a new twist when Howe said he was concerned about Ashworth's knowledge of Newcastle's secrets.

I have never written the word 'espionage' in a football story (and I didn't here), but it's certainly never dull as a reporter on this beat!

Eddie Howe wants a solution on Dan Ashworth's future as quickly as possible amid concerns that Newcastle secrets may leak out

Clark could return to Tyneside

If former Newcastle youngster Bobby Clark doesn't make Liverpool's squad this weekend he could be in action on Tyneside.

Liverpool's Under 21s face Newcastle at Whitley Park at 1pm on Saturday and the son of former Toon favourite Lee may well be involved.

The irony is, had super-talented Bobby, 19, still been at Newcastle, he probably would have been starting for the first team down the road at St James' Park!

State of emergency up front

One option open to Eddie Howe should he wish to bring in another striker is exploring the free agent market, which is open until the fourth Thursday in March.

Howe jokingly invited names from us reporters when we put this possibility to him on Friday morning. OK, Eddie, who needs iScout when you have Google?

There are two unattached strikers he has managed before - Dwight Gayle and Lys Mousset.

He inherited Gayle (34) at Newcastle before allowing him to leave for Stoke in 2022, while he signed Frenchman Mousset (28) for Bournemouth for £6m in 2016.

Former striker Dwight Gayle is a free agent amid a shortage of options up front for Howe

The Premier League handbook appears to say a club would need permission from the Premier League board to sign a player outside a transfer window i.e. special dispensation, often in the case of an emergency in a certain position.

Newcastle could make a case by simply explaining that their current strikers are Wilson and Isak!

Joelinton stand-off continues

And finally, there has been no progress on the situation concerning Joelinton's contract.

We revealed exclusively last month that the Brazilian could be sold this summer if he did not sign a new deal, given his contract expires in 2025. His current wage demands are beyond what the club are willing to pay.

As it stands, his exit remains more likely than him staying. Watch this space for future developments.