Kristen Stewart says she's pleased with the impression her recent shoot for Rolling Stone made.

The 33-year-old actress, who's on the promotional trail for her new film Love Lies Bleeding, spoke about the reaction to the steamy layout in the magazine as she appeared at a news conference at the Berlinale International Film Festival in Berlin on Sunday.

'The existence of a female body thrusting any type of sexuality at you that's not designed for exclusively straight males is something people are not super comfy with and so I'm really happy with it,' the Oscar-nominated actress said, according to The Hollywood Reporter.

In the pictorial for the magazine, Los Angeles native was clad in a jock strap and basketball shorts as she posed in a dilapidated weight room.

Love Lies Bleeding, a crime thriller from A24 directed by Rose Glass, centers around a romance between Stewart's character, a gym manager named Lou, and female bodybuilder Jackie (played by Katy O'Brian).

Kristen Stewart, 33, says she's pleased with the impression her recent shoot for Rolling Stone made, as she appeared at a news conference at the Berlinale International Film Festival in Berlin on Sunday

The actress, who's on the promotional trail for her new film Love Lies Bleeding, spoke about the reaction to the steamy layout in the magazine

Stewart detailed her creative philosophy in regards to the photoshoot (which was snapped by the publication's Collier Schorr), adding that she 'loved the opportunity' to be the main subject of it.

'It's okay to take different pictures and mix them up in a way that people aren't used to and want to go and that's okay, too,' she said. 'In fact, it's pervasive and it's everywhere and it's being denied and it's crazy that there aren't more pictures like that.'

At the news conference, Stewart, who identifies as bisexual, said she feels that 'the era of queer films, being so pointedly only that, is over - it's done.'

'Maybe they'll happen, but I think things develop and move on. It's just so inherent to how we're all moving forward.

The Twilight alum added: 'It's not making [movies] about the reasons that they're sidelined, but peoples' actual experiences, what they love, what their desires are, where they come from, where they want to go and, yeah, not feeling like you always have to stand on a f***ing soapbox and be everyone's spokesperson.'

Stewart said that she felt that films in the LGBTQ+ genre should be made for the mainstream, in an effort to move it forward.

'We can't keep doing that thing where we tell everyone how to feel, and where we sort of pat each other on the back and receive brownie points for providing space for marginalized voices,' Stewart said, 'and only in the capacity that they are allowed to speak about that alone.'

At the news conference, Stewart - whose been seen in recent years in films such as Love Me, Crimes of the Future and Spencer - delivered an update on a biopic she's working on centered around late author Susan Sontag.

Stewart spoke about the movie alongside director Rose Glass on Sunday

The storyline of the movie centers around a romance between Stewart's character, a gym manager named Lou, and female bodybuilder Jackie (played by Katy O'Brian)

At the news conference, Stewart, who identifies as bisexual, said she feels that 'the era of queer films, being so pointedly only that, is over'

'The Sontag thing will be made over such a long span of time,' Stewart said of the creative process.

She described the Sontag project as 'a hybrid documentary, research project, experiment, film-within-a-film type thing,' adding that 'the format is unique' with 'sort of an open-ended process.'

Stewart said that it had not yet been determined when the project - which commenced 'last year here at the festival' - was going to be released.

Love Lies Bleeding, which also stars Ed Harris, Dave Franco, Anna Baryshnikov and Jena Malone, is due in theaters March 8.