Nicola Peltz is hitting back at many Instagram comments that she 'doesn't work,' while promoting her directorial debut film, Lola, which she also wrote and stars in.

The 29-year-old actress - who shared a sweet Valentine's Day post to husband Brooklyn Beckham - and new writer-director is the daughter of billionaire businessman Nelson Peltz.

She started acting at just 11 years of age, and now as a writer-director, Peltz opened up about various Instagram comments in a wide-ranging interview with Byrdie.

'I get a lot of mean comments on my Instagram that, unfortunately, I do read, and they always comment, "She doesn’t work,"' she shared.

'And that’s fair, and I don’t blame them for saying that because it’s not like I’m posting my Lola experience every step of the way. But I really have been working on Lola for six years. It’s such a massively long process,' she explained.

Nicola Peltz is hitting back at many Instagram comments that she 'doesn't work,' while promoting her directorial debut film, Lola, which she also wrote and stars in

She started acting at just 11 years of age, and now as a writer-director, Peltz opened up about various Instagram comments in a wide-ranging interview with Byrdie

When asked how she was feeling about her first directorial effort now being out in the world, the multi-hyphenate revealed she wrote the script when she was 23.

'I’m feeling a lot of different things. I’m honestly so excited for everyone to finally be able to see it. I wrote it when I was 23, and it’s been such a labor of love. I’ve put my heart and soul into it,' she added.

Peltz plays the title character, a teenage girl who works to save up enough money to get her and her younger brother (Luke David Blumm) out of the toxic home they share with their mother (Virginia Madsen).

She revealed that the story was ultimately born through writing exercises she undertook with her acting coach Nancy Banks.

'Every time I prepare for an acting role and a character, I do journaling as my character—it’s a private thing, and Nancy is the only person who reads it,' she said.

'Through that, I realized I love writing and that it’s therapeutic for me. I’ve always been curious about expanding my writing, but I honestly didn’t plan on writing a script,' she admitted.

Just like she wasn't planning on writing a script, she wasn't planning on directing Lola either, though she was convinced to do so through her producer.

'I really wanted to find a female director because I wanted that feminine touch and a woman’s perspective,' Peltz admitted.

When asked how she was feeling about her first directorial effort now being out in the world, the multi-hyphenate revealed she wrote the script when she was 23

Peltz plays the title character, a teenage girl who works to save up enough money to get her and her younger brother (Luke David Blumm) out of the toxic home they share with their mother (Virginia Madsen)

She revealed that the story was ultimately born through writing exercises she undertook with her acting coach Nancy Banks

'But then people were [suggesting] I should direct because I know the characters better than anyone else,' she added.

'I always wanted to direct, but never in a million years did I think I’d do it in something I wrote and acted in. I just jumped in and did it,' she continued.

She added that, 'Family is everything to me, and I mean that with my whole heart. I’m so close to mine and Brooklyn’s family and I think there’s no better feeling than knowing you have a strong support system. It’s such a blessing, and I never take it for granted.'

Vertical Entertainment acquired the theatrical rights to Lola back in December, with the film now playing in theaters and available on digital platforms.