Clara McGregor stunned in a plunging black dress as she posed with her father Ewan at the Bleeding Love screening in New York City on Friday.

The duo promoted their father-daughter road trip movie at the Roxy Cinema and enjoyed an afterparty at celebrity hotspot The Mulberry together.

The upcoming movie will be screened at the Glasgow Film Festival next month and will hit screens on March 29 in the UK.

Clara, who co-produced the movie and plays Ewan's on-screen daughter, looked elegant in her strappy satin ensemble.

Ewan, 52, who shares Clara with his ex-wife Eve Mavrakis, put on a dapper display in a navy sweatshirt and black trousers, teamed with a knitted jacket and scarf.

Clara McGregor, 28, stunned in a plunging black dress as she posed with her father Ewan, 52, at the Bleeding Love screening in New York City on Friday

The duo promoted their father-daughter road trip movie at the Roxy Cinema and enjoyed an afterparty at The Mulberry together (Clara and Ewan pictured)

Ethan Hawke, Ewan McGregor and Clara McGregor at celebrity hotspot The Mulberry in NYC

The father-daughter duo appeared in great spirits as they chatted about the upcoming movie.

Clara, who has previously admitted she is glad to be a nepo baby, recently revealed having a famous father can lead to some incredibly embarrassing moments.

Appearing on Jimmy Kimmel last week alongside Ewan, Clara recounted the time she was forced to watch her father naked in one of his movies during her gender studies class in high school.

Retelling the awkward moment, Clara explained: 'When I was a senior in high school I took a gender studies class.

'My teacher came up to me near the end of the semester and was like, "Listen, there's a movie that I usually teach, it's part of the curriculum, your dad is in it. There is some nudity so I wanted to run it by you before we watched it in class."

'And I said it was fine. I didn't really think much of it. And so we watched the movie called The Pillow Book, which is a brilliant film.'

Released in 1996, the erotic drama film written sees a Japanese model with body-writing fetish seeking to find a combined lover and calligrapher, as Ewan plays one of her lovers, Jerome, who allows her to write on his nude body.

She continued: 'But watching that movie at 17 with your entire high school class, it's more like they're watching me watch that film, which was definitely an interesting…'

The upcoming movie will be screened at the Glasgow Film Festival next month and will hit screens on March 29 in the UK

Clara, who co-produced the movie, plays Ewan's on-screen daughter, looked elegant in her strappy satin ensemble

Ewan, who shares Clara with his ex-wife Eve Mavrakis, put on a dapper display in a navy sweatshirt and black trousers, teamed with a knitted jacket and scarf

As the audience and Ewan erupted into laughter, Jimmy asked: 'And are you naked in that film?'

Ewan replied: 'A lot,' as Clara interjected: 'Full-frontally nude, the whole time.'

The actress is ­promoting her father-daughter road trip movie Bleeding Love, which will be screened at the Glasgow Film Festival next month. She produced and acted in the film with her Perth-born father.

The star, who shares Clara with his ex-wife Eve Mavrakis, went on to explain that Clara's teacher also reached out to him for permission too.

'I went, "Look, I wouldn't want to be the reason you don't show that movie to your kids because it's a beautiful movie."

'But I said, "You have to guarantee that the kids are mature enough not to make fun of Clara or make her feel bad about it",' Ewan explained.

Clara added, 'It was uncomfortable. I think they also probably felt a little uncomfortable.'

Jimmy joked, 'Well yeah, they're like "that's where she came from",' as the crowd burst into hysterics.

Ewan's daughter Clara recently revealed the incredibly awkward moment she was forced to watch her dad NAKED during a class at school

Appearing on Jimmy Kimmel last week alongside Ewan, Clara recounted the time she was forced to watch her father naked in The Pillow Book, as she explained: 'It was uncomfortable'

Jimmy joked, 'Well yeah, they're like "that's where she came from",' as the crowd burst into hysterics

Released in 1996, the erotic drama film written sees a Japanese model with body-writing fetish seeking to find a combined lover and calligrapher, as Ewan plays one of her lovers, Jerome, who allows her to write on his nude body

However Clara has also acknowledged that having a famous father comes with benefits.

She said: 'What comes with that is an immense amount of ­privilege. I grew up wealth privileged but also with the celebrity privilege of my dad. So when people are like, 'Is it hard to have a famous dad?', I'm like, 'Oh no, it's not.'

'I love my dad, I've never wanted to distance myself from that. When it comes to the whole nepo baby thing, I get it. I get the frustration. I have had a lot more opportunities because of who he is. That's undeniable.

'I think a lot of things are made easier because you have a famous parent.

'I love acting, I love being on a film set and growing up around it made me fall in love with it. All I want is just to be very good at what I do and keep getting better and better.'