The coming year is going to be anything but business as usual as far as aviation is concerned.

That's because some of the most renowned carriers are introducing brand-new business class suites fitted, in many cases, in shiny new aircraft. Here, respected frequent flyer website www.headforpoints.com presents the 10 new business class suites flyers can look forward to the most.

Rhys Jones, who helped compile the information, told MailOnline Travel: 'Airlines all over the world are rushing to introduce new business-class seats as 2024 becomes the year that air passenger numbers recover (and even exceed) pre-Covid levels.

'These seats will largely be introduced on next-generation aircraft. Thanks to improved cabin environments - with higher humidity levels and lower cabin pressurisation altitude - they should ensure that you get from A to B in the most stylish and comfortable ways possible.

'Getting on towards a decade from when the first business-class suites with fully closing doors were announced, they’re now almost standard. Just three seats in our roundup do not have this coveted privacy feature.' Read on for the full list...

American Airlines - Flagship Suite

American Airlines is introducing two new business-class suites, to be introduced in 2024 on new deliveries of the 787-9 Dreamliner (above four images) and the single-aisle Airbus A321XLR

American Airlines, headforpoints.com notes, is introducing not one, but two new business-class seats - both called the Flagship Suite.

The site explains that they will be introduced on new deliveries this year of the 787-9 Dreamliner and the single-aisle Airbus A321XLR.

Features? '[They will] tout privacy doors, more personal storage space and a chaise longue seating option,' says headforpoints.com.

This image shows the new AA business-class suite on the single-aisle Airbus A321XLR

Anything else? A few things, with the site adding that the Dreamliner suite will feature wood-effect doors, marble-effect tables and a pop of colour via a red literature pocket.

We're excited. And so too is the insider at American Airlines - the world’s largest carrier by fleet size - who told us that he'd had a sneak peek of the suite, and that it's 'fantastic'.

Air India

Air India's new business-class seat will be arranged in a 1-2-1 configuration

Air India's new business-class seat, notes headforpoints.com, will be arranged in a 1-2-1 configuration and feature 'warm grey upholstery and noise-dampening surrounds as well as copper-coloured accents'.

When can passengers give it a try? Headforpoints.com says: 'The rollout of the new seat will start on the airline’s existing Boeing 777-300ER aircraft, but will encompass the entire fleet, with up to 22 per cent of the long-haul fleet expected to be completed by March 2024.'

Lufthansa - Allegris business class

Allegris features a world-first in-seat heating and cooling system that’s adjustable at every seat

There are lots of reasons to be excited about Lufthansa's Allegris business-class seat, which should debut this summer.

Headforpoints.com says: 'Allegris features a staggering seven different business-class seat options, ranging from centre throne seats to honeymoon pairs and unique bassinet seats. Notably absent is a privacy door, except in the front-row business suites.

'They are immediately identifiable in Lufthansa’s class navy and chocolate colour scheme. But what is truly impressive is the technology they are packing, with a world-first in-seat heating and cooling system that’s adjustable at every seat.'

Headforpoints.com's Rhys adds: 'This nifty technology, inspired by luxury cars, will be a gamechanger for anyone who finds themselves too hot or cold on-board with a fully adjustable micro-climate.'

Japan Airlines

Japan Airlines is the first airline to introduce headphone-less audio entertainment in its seats

Japan Airlines is introducing Airbus A350-1000s to its fleet, and with these comes a brand-new business class, which will feature world-first built-in headphone-less audio entertainment.

Rhys says: 'Japan Airlines is the first airline to introduce headphone-less audio entertainment in its seats.

'Specially crafted speakers built into the headrest are paired with noise-cancelling technology to ensure that every passenger can listen or watch their favourite entertainment without the hassle of headphones or earbuds. It's a feature I can't wait to try out.'

The seats will be presented in a 1-2-1 configuration and also feature 24-inch 4K screens.

FlyDubai

FlyDubai's new 737 Max business-class seats are 'impressive', says headforpoints.com

FlyDubai, says headforpoints.com, 'is making its first foray into all-aisle-access business-class seating with the launch of what can only be described as an impressive cabin on its soon-to-arrive Boeing 737 Max aircraft'.

The site adds: 'The seats feature a beautiful coral-coloured weave with sand-coloured surrounds and silver trim evoking the deserts of the UAE.'

Air New Zealand - Business Premier seat

Air New Zealand is ditching its Virgin Atlantic-style herringbone seats in favour of suites with adjustable privacy screens

This year Air New Zealand is taking delivery of brand new Dreamliners, which will feature new business-class seats that replace, points out headforpoints.com, its Virgin Atlantic-style herringbone seats.

The site continues: 'The premium-heavy aircraft will feature 42 Business Premier seats as well as eight Business Premier Luxe suites with even more personal space and legroom as well as the option to buddy dine.

'Whilst there’s no door, an adjustable privacy screen is available.'

Saudia A321XLR business-class seat

Saudia’s A321XLR business-class seat (above) will be configured in an aisle-facing 1-1 layout

The first of Saudia’s 15 A321XLR aircraft are due to arrive in 2024, says headforpoints.com, and these will feature Thompson’s VantageSolo seat, also found on JetBlue’s A321LRs.

The site adds: 'This business-class seat is optimised for single-aisle aircraft and features an aisle-facing herringbone in 1-1 layout. It appears Saudia will also offer a business-plus front row with increased space and the option to buddy dine.'

Cathay - Aria Suite

Cathay Pacific's new Aria Suite will debut in the carrier's Boeing 777-300ER aircraft

Cathay Pacific is introducing its new Aria Suite this year to its existing fleet of Boeing 777-300ER aircraft, explains headforpoints.com.

It adds: 'Teaser photos suggest a warm colour palette with sand-coloured woven seat and wood-effect console-table. A clever sliding tray means storage is accessible even when the console table is in use, whilst a personal light offers adjustable in-seat lighting.'

Emirates' new business class

'Emirates benefits from an excellent reputation thanks to its impressive A380s,' says headforpoints.com, 'but its Boeing 777 business class is less impressive (to be polite) with no direct aisle access and angle-flat seats.

'That will change in 2024, when the airline begins a refurbishment program on the fleet with the introduction of an all-new business-class seat. New aircraft deliveries, such as the A350 and 777X, will also get it.

'Details have been kept firmly under wraps, but aircraft will go from 2-3-2 in business to an industry standard 1-2-1.'

Malaysia Airlines' new business class seat

A fleet of 20 new Airbus A330-900neos is due to start arriving in the Malaysia Airlines fleet in late 2024, notes headforpoints.com, 'and the airline is using it as an opportunity to introduce a brand new business-class product'.

It's similar to the British Airways Club Suite, says the site, and 'features lovely dark blue fabric as well as a characterful embossed batik pattern on the seat surrounds'.

Images of the suite are currently unavailable.

For more visit www.headforpoints.com/2024/01/02/10-business-class-seats-to-look-forward-to-in-2024.