Jessica Simpson daughter Maxwell hilariously poked fun at one of her mother's most embarrassing moments on reality television, when she confused tuna and chicken.

In a new commercial for Chicken of the Sea, the singer, 43, teamed up with her 11-year-old, who she shares with husband Eric Johnson, to pay homage to an iconic moment that aired on her hit series, Newlyweds: Nick and Jessica, back in 2003.

The adorable advertisement began with the performer sitting on the couch eating a packet of the tuna.

'Mom, what are you eating in the packet,' Maxwell asks her mother, who explains she is snacking on something 'called Chicken of the Sea.'

Hysterical: Jessica Simpson daughter Maxwell hilariously poked fun at one of her mother's most embarrassing moments on reality television, when she confused tuna and chicken

Funny: In a new commercial for Chicken of the Sea, the singer, 43, teamed up with her 11-year-old, who she shares with husband Eric Johnson, to pay homage to an iconic moment that aired on her hit series, Newlyweds: Nick and Jessica, back in 2003

'Mom, what are you eating in the packet,' Maxwell asks her mother, who explains she is snacking on something 'called Chicken of the Sea'

'It's not really chicken — it's tuna,' Simpson tells her eldest child. 'So don't get confused by it.'

Maxwell then responds: 'Who would get confused by that?'

'No one. Not your Mom,' Simpson says, before letting out an awkward laugh.

At the end of the commercial, the mother-of-three speaks to the audience directly as she assures them she knows 'it’s tuna' now after nearly two decades of ridicule over the flub, when she was 23.

In one episode of MTV's Newlyweds, which documented her married life with Lachey, Simpson ate Chicken Of The Sea brand tuna and asked the question that went viral and shot her further into the fame stratosphere.

'Is this chicken, what I have, or is this fish? I know it's tuna but it says, Chicken By the Sea. Is that stupid?,' Simpson asked her exasperated husband.

Nick eventually let her know that it was indeed tuna and Jessica has been living it down ever since, but, obviously, with great humor.

The couple divorced in 2005 and Jessica went on to marry Johnson and together they share daughters Maxwell and Birdie, four, as well as son Ace, 10.

'It's not really chicken — it's tuna,' Simpson tells her eldest child. 'So don't get confused by it'

Maxwell then responds: 'Who would get confused by that?'

'No one. Not your Mom,' Simpson says, before letting out an awkward laugh

Newlyweds aired on MTV from 2003 to 2005 but by the third season, Simpson and Lachey were no longer speaking to each other except for the cameras.

Simpson previously explained in her 2020 memoir, Open Book, that it had been her dad Joe's idea to do the reality show; he was her manager at the time.

She said her father had persuaded her that sharing her life on television would help people to 'understand' her and make her 'human'.

'If they get to hang out with you while you're on the couch, they'll really understand who you are,' she said her dad told her.