Can this trick really give you an extra £1,600-a-year of pension? Workers on brink of retirement could boost pots by putting off state pension



Spending your whole pension pot in the space of a few years while deferring your state pension could help people squeeze an extra £1,600-a-year out of your retirement pot.



A system that takes advantage of the generous bonuses given to people who put off taking their state pension has been devised by investment giant Fidelity, which is now proposing it to customers.

It could see someone with a modest retirement pot of around £50,000 turn an inflation-linked annual retirement income of around £8,400 in the year they retire, into one worth £9,700 which will also rise each year with prices.



Income boost: Fidelity is advising customers about a system that takes advantage of generous uprating of deferred state pensions.

They could do this by withdrawing the entirety of their private pension savings over three to four years and living off it, before taking their state pension once their pot has been emptied.

Fidelity's system only works for people who retire before the new state pension is introduced in April 2016, so could be used by men who were 63 and women who were 61 in April this year.

It is also designed for people who want a guaranteed income in retirement, as opposed to those who are looking to take advantage of the new pension freedom rules by making sizable and irregular withdrawals from their pension pot once the reforms are introduced from next April.

Alan Higham, head of retirement insight at Fidelity, said that whether this works depends on individual circumstances and timing, as such it is only putting customers onto the plan if they get advice and warn against people trying to set it up themselves in case they leave themselves without an income for several months.



Fidelity itself is charging £750 in fees to set it up for those who don't come through an independent financial adviser.

How it works

If you had a £50,000 pension pot, you would be able to take 25 per cent of this as a tax-free lump sum, leaving you with £37,500.

If you wanted to turn this into a guaranteed, inflation-protected income, you could buy an annuity that in the first year would get you an income of around £1,400.

Say you had a state pension entitlement of £7,000, made up of the basic state pension and the second state pension (which will be abolished in 2016), then this would give you an income of £8,400 in your first year of retirement.

After four years, age 69 for men and 67 for women, then this could be worth just under £9,700-a-year, assuming an annual increase of 3.5 per cent in that time.



But rather than buy an annuity, you could take a £9,700 income directly from your pension pot at 65 or 63, spending what you need to live off but leaving it in an account that gives you some decent interest.



You then increase the amount you take with inflation every year to protect yourself, so you would take around £10,000 in year two. Any withdrawals under the personal income tax allowance - £10,500 from next April - will not attract any tax.



This would mean your entire pot would have disappeared some time between years three and four, at which point you take your state pension.

The Government increases your state pension by 10.4 per cent for every year you defer, so by the time you come to take your state pension and your private pot is empty, that £7,000 state pension will have turned into one worth around £9,700 - a similar amount to that taken in the first year of retirement from your private pension.

However, during this time your state pension will also rise every year through the triple lock (the highest of 2.5 per cent, inflation or average earnings), so assuming inflation is 3.5 per cent during that time then your state pension will be worth just over £11,000-a-year.



It means that you can take an income about £1,600 compared to an inflation-linked annuity and taking the state pension.

When savings interest is taken into account, someone who defers their state pension for three-and-a-half-years in this scenario would be £40,000 better off over retirement.



Why won't it work for people retiring after April 2016?

People who retire after April 2016 will be on the new flat-rate state pension, as the Government gets rid of the current two-tier system.

The Government is offering a cherry to everyone who defers, but this is lower than the generous 10.4 per cent-a-year it is offering currently, at just 5.8 per cent.

Currently anyone who defers can pass on their whole state pension and half of their S2P to their spouse when they die, but under the new system deferring the state pension will remove the survivor's pension.



Money in your pocket: Fidelity believes its system can be worth more than £40,000 to retirees who want a guaranteed income.

What are the benefits?

The extra income you could get in the first few years of retirement is the main benefit here, as one of the main problems with buying an annuity is that it doesn't take into account people will spend more money in early retirement than later.

What's more, with so much concern about people making their incomes last throughout retirements prolonged by increasing life expectancy, this system will provide a guaranteed income that will last them until they die.



Also, it will mean that they will have used up the entirety of their private pension pot early and still have that guaranteed income. This is somewhat preferable than handing it over to an insurance company that pockets the difference if they die shortly into retirement.

The same argument stands for anyone entering retirement in poor health who may not live long enough to make the most of their private pension savings if they convert it into an enhanced annuity.

What are the risks?

One of the main criticisms of annuities was their flexibility and this is something that is sacrificed in this system once your private pension has disappeared.

With new pension rules giving people freedom to make withdrawals as and when they want, if people deplete their pension pots within four or five years then it could leave them vulnerable if they get hit with unexpected costs later in their retirement.

Anyone considering it should also bear in mind they would be putting responsibility for their income entirely in the hands of the Government, which is notorious for tinkering with pensions legislation.

