She's the Married At First Sight bride who's not backward in coming forward and expressing her opinions.

And Lauren Dunn certainly wasn't shy when she hit Perth's famous Cottesloe Beach with a friend on Sunday.

Lauren ensured all eyes were on her when she slipped off her denim cut-offs and revealed a skimpy, white G-string bikini that could barely contain her amply assets.

The reality TV star accessorised her look with dainty statement earrings, a delicate necklace and a simple bangle.

She completed her look with a simple green cap to protect her famous visage, and carried her belongings in a Louis Vuitton tote.

She's the Married At First Sight bride who's not backward in coming forward and expressing her opinions. And Lauren Dunn certainly wasn't shy when she hit Perth's famous Cottesloe Beach with a friend on Sunday. Pictured

Lauren ensured all eyes were on her in a skimpy, white G-string bikini that could barely contain her amply assets

The reality TV star accessorised her look with dainty statement earrings, a delicate necklace and a simple bangle

She allowed her natural beauty to shine through on the day, opting to go makeup free

Lauren allowed her natural beauty to shine through on the day, opting to go makeup free.

At one stage, Lauren's bikini threatened to expose her cleavage as she stepped out of the surf.

The leggy beauty was quick to protect her modesty, as a scuba diver lurked in the distance.

At one stage, Lauren's bikini threatened to expose her cleavage as she stepped out of the surf

The leggy beauty was quick to protect her modesty, as a scuba diver lurked in the distance

Lauren made sure to drain her locks fee of the salty seawater

Lauren's bikini top could barely cover her busty display

She slipped off her denim cut-offs and revealed a skimpy G-string bikini

She put on a cheeky display as she showed off her peachy derrière

Lauren's blonde locks cascaded down her back on the day

Lauren shock her towel free of sand before drying off

Lauren showed off her delicate tattoos on the beach

She carried her belongings in a Louis Vuitton tote

The Channel Nine star enjoyed a coffee between dips

Lauren's exposed bottom turned heads on the beach

Her beach day comes after she and partner Jono McCullough spilled the beans on the drama that unfolded behind the scenes during the show's first dinner party

The couple revealed that the cast received a stern warning from producers for being too mundane, prompting a whirlwind of drama that viewers saw on screen

'Everyone was having an awesome time and then we got a stern talking to that we needed to be real and honest,' Jono told Daily Mail Australia

Lauren agreed with Jono, noting the initial pleasantries quickly gave way to a more intense and compelling dialogue among the cast.

Lauren Dunn beach day comes after she and partner Jono McCullough spilled the beans on the drama that unfolded behind the scenes during the show's first dinner party.

The couple revealed that the cast received a stern warning from producers for being too mundane, prompting a whirlwind of drama that viewers saw on screen.

'Everyone was having an awesome time and then we got a stern talking to that we needed to be real and honest,' Jono told Daily Mail Australia.

'Soon everyone just starts unleashing, so expect some sparks to fly.'

Lauren agreed with Jono, noting the initial pleasantries quickly gave way to a more intense and compelling dialogue among the cast.