Conservative commentator Ann Coulter told HBO's Bill Maher that if the shooters at the Kansas City Chiefs' Super Bowl parade were white males, 'we'd know their identities by now.'

Two teenagers have been charged as juveniles in connection the parade shooting, despite a prosecutor previously saying they would be accused as adults.

Coulter told Maher and fellow guest commentator Van Jones on Real Time Friday night that the lack of public confirmation of the shooters' identities was a sure sign they weren't white men after Maher said 'we don't know.'

'We have some idea,' Coulter responded. 'If it were a white man shooting, we’d know.'

Although the suspects remain unidentified by authorities, images have been published by DailyMail.com.

Conservative commentator Ann Coulter told HBO 's Bill Maher that if the shooters at the Kansas City Chiefs' Super Bowl parade were white males, 'we'd know their identities by now.'

When Maher tried to remind Maher that their official identities remain uncertain, Coulter doubled down: 'That’s how we know it’s not a white man. I can tell you that much.'

Maher then questioned Coulter as to whether they were 'suppressing that reporting' which the longtime conservative firebrand connected to the mass shooting in Nashville last year, which was committed by transgender man Aiden Hale.

'They wouldn’t tell us about the, transgender woman that shot up the Christian school for, what, like a year? Oh, San Bernardino out here. Remember the crazy terrorist Muslims? That’s when I first noticed. Hm, they’re not telling us who it is. It’s not a white male. The longer they go without telling you, it’s not a white male.'

Maher did remind the audience that it is still not officially known but Coulter hit home her point one more time: 'We know.'

'We don’t officially know. Okay, you know, you have special powers,' Maher joked.

The Kansas City shooting suspects can be seen arguing in chilling footage taken moments before a gunfight killed one and injured 22 at the Chiefs Super Bowl parade.

Footage taken on a fan's phone shows two of the juvenile suspects arguing in the background during a heated exchange with someone off camera.

The suspect in a red hooded sweater is seen hastily pulling his backpack off as if he is reaching for something within it.

While another teen lurks behind him, wearing a beige brown jacket and what appears to be a black bandana over his face, another is also seen wearing a black hoodie with a black satchel.

Separate footage shows the suspect in the black hoodie leaving the scene with his hand caked in blood as he clutches his face.

Coulter told Maher and fellow guest commentator Van Jones on Real Time Friday night that the lack of public identities of the shooters was a sure sign they weren't white men after Maher said 'we don't know'

Maher then questioned Coulter as to whether they were 'suppressing that reporting' which the longtime conservative firebrand connected to the mass shooting in Nashville last year, which was committed by transgender man Aiden Hale

One juvenile in a red hooded sweater is seen hastily pulling his backpack off him as if he is reaching for something within it

Eye witnesses told the outlet that the teen with the satchel, seen here, had been shot in the face during the melee

Kansas City Police Chief Stacey Graves said earlier this week that investigators believed the shooting was triggered by a personal dispute.

Eye witnesses told the outlet that the teen with the satchel had been shot in the face during the melee.

One witness said on Friday that one of the suspects had been missing part of their jaw following the shooting on Wednesday.

Navy veteran Tony Janssens told Fox News Digital how he bumped into some of the suspects as he was fleeing to safety after shots rang.

'[One of the suspects] turns around and his jaw's been shot. He's basically missing his jaw, and he's freaking out,' Janssen said.

'He doesn't know what to do. He doesn’t know what to do. And then his buddies are kind of scrambling. They’re all like, don’t know if they should keep running or help his buddy, since he’s bleeding now.'

Janssens was not sure if the suspect was a victim or one of the shooters, but he followed his military training and kept his eyes on the injured person.

Other footage also shows the teen in the brown jacket being apprehended by bystanders at the parade following the shooting.

Another teen, wearing a beige brown jacket and what appears to be a black bandana over his face, is also seen in the new footage

One of the suspects, who was tackled by a hero bystander, is shown in handcuffs with police. The motive remains unclear

Pictures show a rifle perched beside a backpack following the deadly shooting that claimed the life of one person on Wednesday

People flee after shots were fired near the Kansas City Chiefs' Super Bowl LVIII victory parade on February 14

The unknown man is seen in dramatic footage being shoved to the ground by heroic fans who chased him down.

Father-of-two Trey Filter was seen tackling the man in the brown jacket along with Omaha resident Paul Contreras.

Explaining how he managed to grab the suspected shooter, Trey said: 'I turn, I see a flash, and I think to myself I hope that is him.

'All I recall is barely seeing the guy and I couldn't believe I caught him, I remember thinking "man I hope that is him".'

Contreras, who attended the event with his daughter Alyssa, was caught on film by his daughter as he launched himself at the suspect.

'One guy was hollering, saying, you know, “Stop him – catch him, tackle him, or whatever,"' Contreras recalled, as footage from others showed the actual tackle in real-time.

'And he’s just barely running,' he went on. 'And out of nowhere I hear that guy hollering, so I’m just like, “OK, I’m right here."'

The dutiful dad continued: 'I didn't think about it. It's just a reaction. I didn't hesitate - just do it.'

Trey and Casey Filter who had been watching the parade with their kids when the mayhem unfolded

Joined by his daughter, 46-year-old Paul Contreras recalled the encounter, which 23-year-old Alyssa managed to capture on her phone as her dad jumped into action

People flee after shots were fired near the Kansas City Chiefs' Super Bowl LVIII victory parade

On Friday it was announced that two teenagers had been charged as juveniles following the shooting.

The suspects, who remain unidentified by authorities, are charged with gun-related offenses and resisting arrest, said The Jackson County Family Court division.

'It is anticipated that additional charges are expected in the future as the investigation by the Kansas City Police Department continues,' the Office of the Juvenile Officer said in a statement.

Missouri law dictates that juvenile hearings are not open to the public. It's possible the suspects could be charged as adults if and when they are charged with a felony.

A third juvenile initially believed to be involved has since been determined to not been connected to the shooting and was released.

Chief Graves said on Friday: 'Our investigators have poured themselves into this investigation, and it continues.

'We will not relent until everyone who may have played a part in these crimes is apprehended so that they will be punished to the fullest extent of the law.'

The slain woman was identified as Lisa Lopez-Galvan, a local radio host and a mother-of-two, seen here

Flowers, signs and other items are gathered in front of Union Station on Friday, Feb. 16, 2024, in Kansas City, Missouri

The shooting outside Union Station occurred despite the presence of more than 800 police officers who were in the building and surrounding area.

The slain woman was identified as Lisa Lopez-Galvan, a local radio host and a mother-of-two.

Lopez-Galvan, whose DJ name was 'Lisa G,' was an extrovert and devoted mother from a prominent Latino family in the area, said Rosa Izurieta and Martha Ramirez, two childhood friends who worked with her at a staffing company.

The 22 people injured ranged between 8 and 47 years old, with half under 16. Eleven children were taken to a children’s hospital, nine of them with gunshot wounds.

All but one child had been released by Friday, and that last person being treated was expected to recover.

Eight gunshot victims were taken to another hospital Wednesday. Officials there said two were in critical condition Thursday and five had been discharged. Three of four people injured in the chaos after the shooting had been discharged.

At a third hospital, a gunshot victim who was in critical condition was upgraded to serious condition, an official said Thursday afternoon. Four people injured after the shooting were treated there and released.