When we faced Brazil in the World Cup quarter-final in 2002 there was a genuine feeling among the players this could be our time. A path was opening up to the final. We knew we'd face the winners of Senegal vs Turkey — we felt we could beat both — and in the other semi-final there would be Germany, who we'd beaten 5-1 the year before, and South Korea. If only we could get past Brazil.

If only. That is a phrase that will always feature heavily when assessing my England career. We all know how it ended in the heat of Shizuoka that day. I look back on my time with England with so many regrets. Many of my team-mates do as well.

Primarily that centres around the system we played. We were made for 3-5-2, with David Beckham and Ashley Cole as wing-backs. Now I'm watching a team play that system. And I'm genuinely excited for us. Watching England play has been a chore, pretty much an unenjoyable duty for years.

England's stars trudge back to the centre circle after Ronaldinho scored for Brazil in 2002

Gareth Southgate has made a series of sensible decisions en route to the World Cup

I would include in that much of the time I played for them, even though, at the time, you don't realise it. You're simply so proud to play for your country and so focused on what you're doing, you don't see how it feels from outside. But we played a system that never allowed us to thrive.

I've said in these pages before that if ever there was a case for football being about systems and not players, it was the England team between 2000 and 2006. With a different system you would have seen a different type of performance. We were playing as though we were shackled. But at least we had the tension of quarter-final shootouts.

Since 2006, England have been painful to watch. It's been laborious football and no joy to it. Suddenly there is hope. Suddenly all the excuses and reasons for not delivering under pressure are being swept aside.

First, there is a manager who has made a series of sensible decisions en route to the World Cup, be that dropping certain players or changing the system. He's been emotionally steady with the players, not exposing them to ups and downs, which is a good thing and like Sven-Goran Eriksson. But he's also made tough decisions when necessary. Unlike Eriksson, he's not the pragmatic, sensible man on the pitch. He's taking risks here in the style of play, which I like.

Among the good decisions he has taken, I would include the resting of players against Belgium. I don't think people fully understand how difficult it can be in a World Cup squad, especially if you're not playing. I don't expect people to understand, as, of course, it is the culmination of a dream to be at the World Cup. And people have much tougher tours in life, especially in the Army and other jobs, where they're away from their family and under much more extreme pressure than footballers.

But in day-to-day life, you train and then go home to spend time with your partner and kids, maybe go out for a meal. You're not always focused on the weekend's game. When you're at a World Cup that is literally all you are focused on. And if you're not actually playing, that drains you. And that negativity can drain the squad. You cannot over estimate how much better the squad will be feeling now that everyone has played.

Principally what is exciting about this team is the style and the opportunity opening up for these players. We've waited for years — you could argue 20 years since the era of Terry Venables and Glenn Hoddle — for England to play with fluidity and create chances.

That's always been our problem. We've been solid at times in our better years. But apart from a couple of occasions — against Germany in 2001, Denmark in 2002 and Croatia in Euro 2004 — we rarely looked like creating lots of goals. Now there is a chance to change that.

Harry Kane leads the line for England in Russia and currently leads the Golden Boot race, too

And, yes, there is a route opening up to the semi-finals. That's not to disrespect Colombia, who are a very fine team with some players we know a lot about in Radamel Falcao, Juan Cuadrado, James Rodriguez (if fit) and Davinson Sanchez, as well some less familiar names, like Porto's Juan Quintero in attacking midfield and Barcelona's Yerry Mina, who is such a threat at set-pieces.

We're long past the days when the English public underestimated the threat of teams like Colombia.

Equally, as players, you have to back yourself to win a game that is finely balanced. As you would against Sweden and Switzerland. There is a path to a semi-final avoiding the traditional World Cup powers. And saying that isn't arrogant or presumptuous. It's a fact. They're probably saying the same in Colombia, Sweden and Switzerland!

I would say to the likes of Harry Kane, Dele Alli, Raheem Sterling and the rest of the squad: take this opportunity. Don't live with regret. Some of these players, like that trio, will probably get the chance to play in another World Cup. But you never know, Certainly for many of the squad there won't be another chance to play in a tournament that only comes around every four years. And they certainly are unlikely ever to be in a World Cup draw like this again.

Kane, Dele Alli, Eric Dier and Co train ahead of England's last-16 showdown with Colombia

They're playing with confidence and style. Take that out on to the pitch against Colombia. Seize this moment and play with the flair we know that you have. England have a huge chance now in this tournament. That's not to say that they yet have a huge chance of winning it.

But there is an opportunity to flourish and go deep into the tournament. I spend plenty of time thinking about 'what ifs' when looking back on my England career. Over the next week, this team can ensure they don't have to live with that when they're retired.

Gareth Southgate was right to rest players... I know to my cost

In the 2002 World Cup quarter-final I was in no fit state to play. I had torn my hamstring in the previous game against Denmark. Ordinarily I wouldn't have tried but it was potentially the biggest game of my life.

Our manager Sven-Goran Eriksson wanted me to play simply to get in and round the box and use my finishing when I could. But I couldn't make any of the runs I used to make. I did what I could. I even scored, putting us ahead on 23 minutes. But I wasn't right and ultimately as a team we played poorly and went out, losing 2-1.

We probably would have lost anyway if I had been fit. We've spoken about how the shape wasn't right and how little we created. But we would have had a better chance with everyone fit.

In 2002 quarter-final I was in no fit state to play having torn my hamstring in the previous game

The trouble was we had had three hard group games in searing heat in 10 days. That takes its toll. We had a three-day break and then Denmark in the last 16, where I tore my hamstring. And that, right there, is the reason why Gareth Southgate rested almost everyone on Thursday.

Every game you play in short succession increases your injury risk. So even if Harry Kane had come through Thursday, he would have been a little less sharp for Tuesday. And there would be a greater risk of an injury with tired muscles. Even more so for Kieran Trippier and Dele Alli, who have had strains.

I always thought it took five days to recover properly and feel really fresh. Hopefully the first XI will have two games in five days this week.

And they'll go into that game having had nine days rest. That in itself justifies the England manager's decision. I believe it will pay off.

England boss Southgate rested the likes of Kane and Jordan Henderson against Belgium

Whatever happens now to Lionel Messi after Argentina were knocked out on Saturday, he has still given us one of the great World Cup moments. His goal against Nigeria in their final group game looked a decent finish.

Only when you watch in slow motion can you appreciate that it is simply on a different level to any normal player. Most people can do the first touch, taking the ball down on the knee while running. But it's all about the second touch. Most players would then have to allow the ball to bounce before taking their next touch.

At which point you have to check your stride and adjust your run to the new position of the ball. And the defender has a great chance to intercept or block as you do that. But Messi just caresses the ball gently on before it drops into the perfect position for him to take a strike without checking his run. That is genius.

It was 4am in China when I was watching the game. And when I saw the replay, I was gobsmacked. There are only a handful of players in history who use the ball like that. It really is a privilege to be alive to watch him play.

Lionel Messi scored a stunning opening goal for Argentina in their 2-1 victory over Nigeria

The secrets behind Harry Kane's success

Now the rest of the world is realising what we've all known for a few seasons: Harry Kane really is a world-class finisher. Take his winner against Tunisia. At first glance, it looks a decent header from close range.

In reality, it's the cold finish of an exceptional striker. There's a very small gap between the keeper and the post to aim for, with a defender blocking the space to the left of the keeper. The ball sits up for him but at that moment it's as though Kane's blood runs cold. His header has both precision and extraordinary power, almost like a shot.

MOST INTERNATIONAL GOALS IN CURRENT ENGLAND SQUAD Harry Kane - 18 goals Danny Welbeck - 16 goals Ashley Young, Jamie Vardy - 7 goals Gary Cahill - 5 goals Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sport/football/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

We had seen in that game what can happen even to good professionals with a chance in front of goal. Both John Stones and Raheem Sterling had taken air shots. It's natural. Your brain panics when you know there's a good opportunity. Your heart beats faster and your breath shortens. All of which causes you to tense up. That's the difference between Sterling, who will chip in with goals, and Kane, who is natural finisher and scores 30 a season.

I met him a few months ago. It was fascinating to compare techniques. We talked about how every striker has his favourite finish. Harry likes to take what he calls half a touch, even a scuffed touch before shooting. He feels that if you hit it first time, you rush the chance. If you take a full touch, it allows the defender to get a challenge in and block. A little half touch allows you to set yourself and doesn't allow the defender to react.

Then he shoots quickly, aiming between the defender's legs, usually from the right side across the face of goal. All strikers have a favoured finish. Mine would be a touch and a lift over the keeper. Harry hasn't even had a chance to use his preferred option this World Cup. Here's hoping that it comes on Tuesday.