Aussie Taylor Swift fans were left outraged over the weekend after a group of rowdy football fans swarmed the Melbourne Cricket Ground to boo the pop star.

Taylor, who is currently touring Australia with her sold out Eras Tour, took to the stage at the MCG on Saturday night to perform her second show in Melbourne in front of almost 100,000 fans.

A horde of football fans gathered outside the venue were filmed expressing their disdain for Swift, with one female fan capturing the commotion in a video shared to TikTok.

Many have remarked the 'embarrassing' display has proved the sad truth that some blokes just can't stand the idea of women enjoying themselves.

The clip began with footage of a crowd of fans standing outside the MCG chanting Swift's name, before a group of men wearing footy scarves and beanies booed and hissed as they walked alongside them.

Aussie Taylor Swift fans were left outraged over the weekend after a group of rowdy football fans swarmed the Melbourne Cricket Ground to boo the pop star

'What the f**k? You guys are such losers,' a Swift fan can be heard saying, adding: 'Why are you here? This is embarrassing. What the hell. This is so embarrassing.'

The fan who posted the video wrote: 'Football fans swarming Taylor's concert to boo her. Even the police had to come get rid of them. To all the soccer boys outside the MCG booing Taylor: sincerely F U.'

Other outraged Swifties have since vented their fury: 'These poor little men, they are so scared of a woman's powers they thought embarrassing themselves was the way to go. Imagine being this bothered by women having fun.'

A horde of football fans gathered outside the venue were filmed expressing their disdain for Swift, with one female fan capturing the commotion in a video shared to TikTok

'Men ruining everything. They obviously have nothing better to do,' another agreed.

It comes after Swifties from around the world expressed their anger at Australia's perceived special treatment of Swift during her Eras Tour.

International fans vented on social media after Swift treated Melbourne fans to an extra special surprise song in the form of a mashup of her tracks Getaway Car, The Other Side of the Door and August.

'WHAT POSSESSED HER TO DO THIS?' exclaimed one fan on Twitter.

In her caption, the fan who posted the video wrote: 'Football fans swarming Taylor's concert to boo her. Even the police had to come get rid of them. To all the soccer boys outside the MCG booing Taylor: sincerely F U'

'Does Taylor owe Australia money or something wtf is this,' vented another.

Another shared a meme of a stone-faced NFL player during a tickertape parade, along with the caption, 'The rest of the world watching Melbourne getting getaway car x august x the other side of the door mashup.'

Fans at Taylor's first MCG concert were also treated to a world-first announcement by the songstress that the special edition of The Tortured Poets Department would feature a new song called The Bolter.

It comes after Swifties from around the world expressed their anger at Australia's perceived special treatment of Swift during her Eras Tour