Melissa McCarthy fueled rumors she was the latest to hop aboard the Ozempic train by flaunting her shrinking 5ft2in figure in a body-hugging, silver-sequin catsuit last Friday.

The 53-year-old Little Mermaid star - whose weight has fluctuated throughout the years - paired the glittery onesie with a pink-sequin cape and peep-toe metallic heels selected by stylist Katja Cahill.

Melissa - who boasts 18.7M social media followers - captioned her Instagram: 'Coco Chanel once said, "Before you leave the house, look in the mirror and take at least one thing off." I am not Coco Chanel. I say PILE ON!'

Hairstylist Sarah Sutton coiffed McCarthy's brunette curls and make-up artist Afton Williams fully contoured her complexion.

The two-time Oscar nominee - who previously shed significant weight in 2016 - once dropped 70lbs after going on an all-liquid diet for about four months when she starred on Gilmore Girls.

Melissa McCarthy fueled rumors she was the latest to hop aboard the Ozempic train by flaunting her shrinking 5ft2in figure in a body-hugging, silver-sequin catsuit last Friday

2024 vs 2014: The 53-year-old Little Mermaid star - whose weight has fluctuated throughout the years - paired the glittery onesie with a pink-sequin cape and peep-toe metallic heels selected by stylist Katja Cahill

'I'd never do that again,' Melissa told People in 2011. 'I felt starved and crazy half the time.'

McCarthy was glamming up to attend a private viewing party for season 16, episode seven of RuPaul's Drag Race - titled 'The Sound of Rusic' - in which she was a special surprise guest.

'I just adore you all. I adore what you do. Drag is a big part of why I have a career. I was going to drag shows when I shouldn't have been, and it literally gave me the courage to get up on stage,' the Genie producer-star - who used to attend Wigstock - told the contestants.

'I started in drag. I started [in] a big old red wig [and I was] called "Miss Y." So when I look at you fighting to carve out your space, it makes me so proud. And I just want to thank you for it and root for you. You're all gorgeous ladies, and I just love you. Just keep doing what you're doing. It's not only wildly entertaining and it brings joy, it's important and fight for it because it's worth it.'

Melissa's Instagram post fittingly received glowing comments from RuPaul's Drag Race alumni BenDeLaCreme, Willam, Pandora Boxx, and Nina West.

And even more wondered in the comments if McCarthy was one of the many celebrities who struggled with their weight that have been shedding pounds over the past few years thanks to the trendy semaglutide injectable for diabetes.

Joining the two-time Emmy winner last Friday was her husband of 18 years, Ben Falcone, with whom she co-founded On the Day Productions in 2013.

The Illinois-born, Groundlings grads are proud parents of 16-year-old daughter Vivian Falcone and 14-year-old daughter Georgette Falcone.

Melissa - who boasts 18.7M social media followers - captioned her Instagram: 'Coco Chanel once said, "Before you leave the house, look in the mirror and take at least one thing off." I am not Coco Chanel. I say PILE ON!'

McCarthy was glamming up to attend a private viewing party for season 16, episode seven of RuPaul's Drag Race - titled 'The Sound of Rusic' - in which she was a special surprise guest

The two-time Oscar nominee told the contestants: 'I just adore you all. I adore what you do. Drag is a big part of why I have a career. I was going to drag shows when I shouldn't have been, and it literally gave me the courage to get up on stage'

Melissa continued: 'I started in drag. I started [in] a big old red wig [and I was] called "Miss Y." So when I look at you fighting to carve out your space, it makes me so proud. And I just want to thank you for it and root for you. You're all gorgeous ladies, and I just love you. Just keep doing what you're doing. It's not only wildly entertaining and it brings joy, it's important and fight for it because it's worth it'

McCarthy's Instagram post fittingly received glowing comments from RuPaul's Drag Race alumni BenDeLaCreme, Willam, Pandora Boxx, and Nina West

And even more wondered in the comments if the Genie producer-star was one of the many celebrities who struggled with their weight that have been shedding pounds over the past few years thanks to the trendy semaglutide injectable for diabetes

Joining Melissa last Friday was her husband of 18 years, Ben Falcone (L), with whom she co-founded On the Day Productions in 2013

The Illinois-born, Groundlings grads are proud parents of 16-year-old daughter Vivian Falcone and 14-year-old daughter Georgette Falcone (M, pictured May 8)

For her role as Ursula, Melissa was nominated the movie performance of the year trophy at the 49th People's Choice Awards on Sunday, but the prize went to Barbie actress America Ferrera (pictured)

The Little Mermaid lost the movie of the year trophy to Barbie, and Halle Bailey lost female movie star of the year to Barbie producer-star Margot Robbie during the fan-voted NBC ceremony

McCarthy will next have a mystery role in Jerry Seinfeld's (3-L) feature directorial debut Unfrosted: The Pop-Tart Story, which premieres May 3 on Netflix

For her role as Ursula, Melissa was nominated the movie performance of the year trophy at the 49th People's Choice Awards on Sunday, but the prize went to Barbie actress America Ferrera.

The Little Mermaid lost the movie of the year trophy to Barbie, and Halle Bailey lost female movie star of the year to Barbie producer-star Margot Robbie during the fan-voted NBC ceremony.

McCarthy will next have a mystery role in Jerry Seinfeld's feature directorial debut Unfrosted: The Pop-Tart Story, which premieres May 3 on Netflix.

The 69-year-old comedian also stars in the 1963-set comedy about a pastry war between cereal rivals Kellogg's and Post, which originally derived from one of his stand-up bits.

Jim Gaffigan, Amy Schumer, Hugh Grant, James Marsden, Christian Slater, Maria Bakalova, Bill Burr, Dan Levy, and Fred Armisen will also appear in Unfrosted: The Pop-Tart Story.