A pharmaceutical firm behind a 'faulty' solution feared to have destroyed hundreds of British women's eggs and embryos is being sued in the US over similar claims, MailOnline can reveal today.

CooperSurgical, which has previously worked with model and TV personality Chrissy Teigen, finds itself at the centre of fertility scandals on both sides of the Atlantic.

The company, one of largest of its kind worldwide, supplies liquid used by UK fertility clinics to freeze eggs and embryos as part of IVF treatment.

But in a heartbreaking turn of events, last night it was revealed at least 136 women who underwent treatment at Guy’s and St Thomas' NHS Trust in London might have lost the chance to ever have their own biological children because of an issue with one specific batch of preservation liquid.

Today another clinic in Sheffield was also revealed to be involved in the unfolding scandal, with another 29 women caught up in the scare.

CooperSurgical has previously worked with model and TV personality Chrissy Teigen to promote its cord blood service. Teigen pictured at the 66th Grammy Awards earlier this month

CooperSurgical, a US pharma giant based in Connecticut, is at the centre of fertility scandals on both sides of the Atlantic

The UK issues relate to a batch of SAGE Vitrification Media Kit (pictured) made by the company which normally freezes the eggs and embryos so rapidly they suffer no damage from the process, but on this occasion contained the wrong substance

Yet in the US, Connecticut-based CooperSurgical, whose parent company raked in almost $1billion in revenue last year in America, is facing lawsuits over another type of solution that is used to help embryos grow, as opposed to freeze them.

Grieving would-be parents undergoing fertility treatment claim embryos they hoped would become their children failed to grow because the liquid they were placed in lacked a key nutritional ingredient.

Documents issued by the CooperSurgical in February last year warned a batch of fluid, called a SAGE Vitrification Media Kit, sent to the UK and used to freeze eggs and embryos so they do not suffer any damage contained the wrong substance.

This means that any treated eggs and embryos may be rendered unviable during thawing, potentially robbing some women of the chance to ever have biological children.

Some women at Guy’s, which took just under a year to tell patients of the issue, may have no viable eggs left to freeze for future IVF due to their age.

What is egg freezing? And is it safe? Everything you need to know about the procedure How many women freeze their eggs? Statistics released at the end of last year revealed lockdowns during Covid led to an egg-freezing boom among women fearful of running out of time to have a baby. Figures showed 1,874 women froze their eggs in the UK in 2020 – a number which has nearly doubled since 2015 when 945 women opted for the procedure. Why do they do it? And how much does it cost? Egg freezing is one way of preserving a woman’s fertility so she can try to have a family in the future, according to the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority. It involves collecting a woman’s eggs, freezing them and then thawing them later on so they can be used in fertility treatment. Some cancer patients are advised to freeze their eggs before starting treatment. Eggs are frozen and then thawed before being fertilised. With frozen embryos, the eggs are fertilised before being preserved. This usually happens after IVF so none get wasted. The average cost of having eggs collected and frozen is £3,350, with medication costing up to £1,500 extra and storage up to £350 a year. Is it best to freeze when you're young? If women freeze their eggs when they are younger, the eggs are typically better quality. Therefore, they are more likely to lead to a pregnancy when women use them for IVF later in life. Egg-freezing is therefore increasingly popular among single women, or those deferring motherhood to focus on their career. Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/health/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Others are thought to have undergone cancer treatment and had their wombs removed.

Not all of the bottles of the solution from the affected batch, which had an expiration date of November 2022, will have been faulty.

A spokesperson for Jessop Fertility in Sheffield, which also used CooperSurgical's product, said none of the women had actually been affected by the 'faulty' product.

Health chiefs today told MailOnline no problems with the other product at the centre of legal action in the US – a fluid used to support the growth of an embryo before it is implanted in a womb as part of the IVF process – have been logged in the UK.

At least two US couples are suing the company over problems with that type of solution.

They claim it was toxic and killed embryos, dashing their hopes of having children.

Another legal firm representing a couple caught in the scandal say this was due to the solution in question lacking the normal amount of magnesium, a mineral essential to support the normal development of the embryo.

Lawyers from this case allege workers on the assembly line failed to notice a magnesium hopper used to fill bottles of the solution was empty.

Its absence, allegedly the result of a problem with CooperSurgical’s manufacturing process, led to the embryos becoming unviable, the couples' claim.

While legal action has so far been launched by only a few couples, lawyers in the US claim they have spoken to hundreds of patients who suspect their embryos may have also failed as a result.

Lawyers have also hinted more cases could emerge globally, with CooperSurgical shipping its products worldwide.

The company worked with Teigen on a separate campaign in 2023 to promote its cord blood service, which preserves restorative stem cells from the umbilical cord.

It issued a recall last February for one type of fluid used to support embryos, although it's not clear if this is the same product behind the US legal action.

The document supplied to the MHRA, which polices the safety of drugs and medical products used in the UK, warns that the liquid may contain material 'which does not contain the protein source required for embryo culture and development'.

It adds: 'There is a risk that use of the product from this lot could impact embryo culture and development.'

In a comment issued in January in response to the US legal action, CooperSurgical said: 'While we cannot address ongoing litigation, quality and compliance are fundamental parts of the value we provide to our customers.'

MailOnline approached the company for comment on the recent issues with its products in the UK.

Guy’s yesterday confirmed a total of 136 women may have lost the chance of becoming biological mothers because of the error with the CooperSurgical freezing solution.

A letter sent to women affected informed them that their eggs and embryos 'may not survive the thaw process'.

All of the women involved had their eggs or embryos frozen between September and October 2022.

Jessop Fertility clinic in Sheffield, attached to Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, has been named as the second clinic hit by issues with the freezing liquid

So far it has been confirmed that 136 women may have lost their chance to become biological parents with an NHS fertility clinic warning their frozen eggs and embryos may not survive the thawing process due to a fault (stock image)

Many of the women had eggs or embryos frozen at the Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Trust between September and October 2022

However, despite learning of the problem from the MHRA in March last year, the hospital only informed the affected women within the last two weeks.

Guy's blamed the delay on confusion over which specific batches were affected.

Fertility regulators at the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority (HFEA) today named the Jessop Fertility clinic in Sheffield as also having used the affected freezing solution.

The site, however, revealed that all but one woman were given a fluid that wasn't faulty, and that individual was not affected.

Both clinics treat NHS patients and private ones.

Patient leaflets at Guy’s list the cost of an IVF embryo freeze at £4,750 and an annual cryopreservation storage fee of £350. Similar fees are offered at Jessop Fertility.

They both also boast of being known 'worldwide as an innovator in fertility treatments' or as 'one of the leading UK hospital based fertility centres'.

Medical negligence specialists have said victims could be awarded compensation of payments of over £100,000.

Costs to cover surrogacy could also be included as part of any settlement, they suggested.

Linda Millband, of Thompsons Solicitors, speaking about the emerging UK cases MailOnline: 'These would be high value cases, if you could actually prove them.’

Ms Millband stressed these are likely to be a very 'complex' cases.

The first issue is determining whether the company who made the product or the clinic that used it is to blame – and whether it would have been made a difference.

Ms Millband said another consideration is the delay between Guy's knowing about the problem with the solution and communicating it to the patients affected.

The odds of successful IVF rapidly diminish as women age, from 32 per cent for women under 35, to just 4 per cent for women over 44, declining by about 6 or 7 per cent for every couple of years of age.

She said: 'The question is, if they told people a year ago, would it have made a difference?'

'Obviously with IVF, it's not always successful, so you'd have to have a look on the balance of probabilities whether it would have made any difference.

'Every individual case would be different.’

Catherine Slattery, a specialist group actions medical negligence lawyer at law firm Irwin Mitchell, said: 'This is a very worrying incident which could potentially have devastating consequences for women, especially those who have had to go through the physical and psychological impact of cancer treatment.

'We’ve been contacted by a number of women possibly affected and are looking into their concerns further.

'Some women are based in London and received treatment at Guy’s Hospital, while others are based elsewhere in England and Wales.'

Currently, the fertility treatment has a success rate of up to 40 per cent. Around a third of IVF cycles among under-35s resulted in a live birth in 2019 in the UK. Yet this dropped to just 4 per cent in over-44s

It is unknown if the solution at the centre of the scandal was sent to more UK IVF clinics but went unused.

Sarah Norcross, director of the Progress Educational Trust, a charity representing people affected by infertility, said: 'We need reassurance, from regulators and clinics alike, that processes are in place to notify patients in a timely way when things go wrong.'

Guy’s, which treats about 2,000 patients a year, apologised for the delay in communicating the problem and has offered the women counselling.

A spokesperson for Trust said: 'We have contacted all of those affected and apologised for the delay in doing so and any distress this may have caused.

'We are supporting those who may have been impacted, including through our counselling service, and would urge anyone with concerns to speak to us directly via the dedicated phone line we have set up.'

One woman caught up in the freezing error, who spoke anonymously, told The Times: 'The doctor informed me that the eggs I had frozen are unlikely to be viable, due to a faulty freezing process. It has been devastating.

'It is traumatising for those poor women to be told their frozen eggs cannot be used.'

She called for Guy's to cover the cost of further fertility treatment.

The HFEA recorded more than 4,200 egg storage cycles in 2021, almost double the 2,500 in 2019.

It is thought the number of women freezing their eggs surged during Covid because many feared they were running out of time to have a baby.

The pandemic brought dating to a halt for single women for months at a time, leaving some unsure when they would meet the right partner to start a family.

Egg freezing involves following the first steps of IVF, which takes two to three weeks to complete.

Women take drugs to boost their egg production and help eggs mature.

The eggs are then collected under general anaesthetic, mixed with a freezing solution and frozen. Most patients under 38 have seven to 14 eggs collected. On average, women lose around 1,000 eggs per month.