Martin Freeman looked almost unrecognisable as he debuted a new look on Thursday evening.

The actor joined a series of stars attending an exclusive dinner hosted by British GQ and Paul Smith to celebrate Excellence in Film with Barry Keoghan at Mount Street Restaurant in London.

And the 52-year-old decided the occasion would be the opportune moment to switch up his look as he opted for a quirky style for the event.

Beaming in snaps, the Hobbit star looked to have entered a new era in the quirky get up as he donned a dark tweed jacket and navy T-shirt, while his spotted handkerchief poked out his pocket.

Accessorising the look he added a navy beret and light pink tinted glasses to his ensemble.

Martin Freeman, 52, looked almost unrecognisable as he debuted a quirky new look at an exclusive dinner hosted by British GQ and Paul Smith to celebrate Excellence in Film with Barry Keoghan at Mount Street Restaurant in London on Thursday

Beaming in snaps, the Hobbit star looked to have entered a new era in the quirky get up as he opted for a dark tweed jacket and navy T-shirt, while his spotted handkerchief poked out his pocket

On his feet the star wore some shiny burgundy loafers which he paired with some bold red socks.

Martin recently showcased his new chiselled look as he showed off his macho physique in Miller's Girl.

The star, who plays alongside Wednesday actress Jenna Ortega in the new comedy-drama, has transformed into a tenacious hunk for his latest role.

However the star chose to cover up his buff biceps for his latest event as he kept his jacket on in snaps.

Meanwhile Barry Keoghan looked stylish in a pale blue matching suit jacket and trousers which were adorned with white stitching.

Keeping it casual with a navy T-shirt underneath, the actor completed the look with some navy leather trainers.

Inside the event Barry and his Masters Of The Air co-star Anthony looked to be getting on well as they messed around with their phones while relaxing on the couch.

Martin's appearance comes after it was revealed Jenna Ortega was 'sure of what she wanted to do' for her X-rated sex scene with Martin in Miller's Girl and was completely supported during filming, according to the movie's intimacy coordinator, who has clapped back at claims the raunchy on-screen moment was 'gross.'

Accessorising the look he added a navy beret and light pink tinted glasses to his ensemble

Martin was pictured with Himesh Patel and a guest at the event

Barry Keoghan cut a stylish figure in pale blue suit as he enjoyed the evening

Barry looked to be in great spirits as he messed around with his co-star Anthony Boyle, who affectionately put his arm around the Irishman

Martin recently showcased his new chiselled look as he showed off his macho physique in Miller's Girl

An X-rated sex scene between Jenna Ortega and Martin in new film Miller's Girl has been branded 'gross' by viewers due to their 31-year age gap

Jenna, 21, plays 18-year-old student Cairo Sweet in the age-gap drama, while Martin, 52, takes on the role of her teacher Jonathan Miller.

Viewers were quick to express their unease at watching the Wednesday actress engaging in 'uncomfortable' sexual scenes with the Sherlock star who is 31 years her senior.

But intimacy coordinator Kristina Arjona has exclusively revealed to DailyMail.com that Jenna was involved in decisions about the curation of the racy moments, as she insisted that at no point were any 'boundaries surpassed.'

'There was many, many people throughout this process, engaging with [Jenna] to make sure that it was consistent with what she was comfortable with, and she was very determined and very sure of what she wanted to do,' Kristina said.

'Part of my job too is supporting her decisions. I adapt to whatever is the comfort level of my actors, especially on a production like this where there is a large age gap between the actors.

'I'm hyper aware of both of my talent and making sure that we're consistently checking in and that at no point are any of their boundaries being surpassed. And again, making sure - especially with someone who's significantly younger - that they are giving continuous consent.'