Ed Westwick looked more loved-up than ever on Saturday night as he cosied up to his fiancée Amy Jackson at the EE BAFTA Film Awards' nominees party at the National Gallery, 24-hours ahead of the much-anticipated ceremony.

The Gossip Girl star, 36, and the Bollywood actress, 32, recently got engaged while on holiday in Switzerland last month.

Ed looked on cloud nine as he posed for the cameras in a smart black suit over a white open-collared shirt.

While Amy looked fashion forward in a white and black polka dot bandeau, which left her toned midriff on full display.

She teamed it with a coordinating pencil skirt and the matching blazer for a sophisticated look.

Ed Westwick looked more loved-up than ever on Saturday night as he cosied up to his fiancée Amy Jackson at the EE BAFTA Film Awards' nominees party at the National Gallery

The Gossip Girl star, 36, recently got engaged to the Bollywood actress, 32, who looked fashion forward in a white and black polka dot set that showed off her toned midriff

The mother-of-one elevated her height in a pair of black pointed high heels and added dangly diamond earrings for a touch of sparkle.

Ed and Amy took to Instagram last month to share the news of their engagement with their followers, with a slew of sweet snaps, captioning the images: 'Hell Yes [ring emoji].'

Ed met Amy, who has four-year-old son, Andreas, with her ex-fiancé George Panayatiou, at Silverstone racetrack in 2021.

The couple went Instagram official just before Valentine's Day in 2022, with Amy penning a sweet note on her social media just in time for the occasion.

Oppenheimer looks set to sweep the board at the 2024 EE BAFTA Film Awards after receiving 13 nominations.

Christopher Nolan's epic biopic about atomic bomb creator J Robert Oppenheimer dominated the main categories when nominations were announced on Thursday, with nods for Best Film and for Nolan in Best Director.

In comparison, Oppenheimer's box office rival Barbie received just five nominations and was notably snubbed in the Best Film category.

Cillian Murphy, 47, received his first ever BAFTA nomination for his portrayal of titular character Oppenheimer and will go head-to-head with fellow Irishman Barry Keoghan, 31, for Saltburn in the Best Actor category.

Ed looked on cloud nine as he posed for the cameras in a smart black suit over a white open-collared shirt

Oppenheimer could see Nolan pick up his first ever Director BAFTA.

He faces competition from All Of Us Strangers director Andrew Haigh, Anatomy Of A Fall's Justine Triet, The Holdovers' Alexander Payne, Maestro's Cooper and Jonathan Glazer for The Zone Of Interest.

Notably absent from the category is Barbie's director Greta Gerwig, while the movie - which was the highest-grossing film of 2023 - was also snubbed for Best Film.

Under the new rules, the director longlist had equal numbers of male and female filmmakers, but there is only one woman among the six best-director nominees, Triet.

Gerwig is, however, recognised in the Original Screenplay category alongside her husband and co-writer Noah Baumbach.

Barbie star Margot Robbie is up for Best Actress and will compete in a category that notably excludes Killers of the Flower Moon's Lily Gladstone, despite her awards season success so far. The Scorsese epic received nine nods in total.

The remaining Best Actress nominees are against Poor Things' Emma Stone, Maestro's Carey Mulligan, Anatomy Of A Fall's Sandra Huller, The Colour Purple's Fantasia Barrino and Rye Lane's Vivian Oparah.

German actress Huller is also nominated in a second category, and will battle it out for Supporting Actress for The Zone Of Interest, alongside Oppenheimer's Blunt, Saltburn's Rosamund Pike, The Holdovers' Da'Vine Joy Randolph, The Colour Purple's Danielle Brooks and All Of Us Strangers' Claire Foy.

Ed and Amy took to Instagram last month to share the news of their engagement with their followers, with a slew of sweet snaps, captioning the images: 'Hell Yes [ring emoji]'

Ed met Amy, who has four-year-old son, Andreas, with her ex-fiancé George Panayatiou, at Silverstone racetrack in 2021

Oppenheimer's Downey Jr, will be hoping to continue his winning streak after being nominated in the Supporting Actor category. He has already won a Golden Globe and a Critics Choice award for his performance as Lewis Strauss, the chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission.

Yet he faces stiff competition from first-time BAFTA nominee Jacob Elordi for Saltburn, Robert De Niro for Killers Of The Flower Moon, Ryan Gosling for Barbie, Paul Mescal for All Of Us Strangers and Dominic Sessa for The Holdovers.

Barbie has been nominated for Original Screenplay and faces competition from Anatomy of a Fall, The Holdovers, Maestro and Past Lives.

In the Adapted Screenplay category, All of Us Strangers, American Fiction, Oppenheimer, Poor Things and The Zone of Interest go up against each other.

The contenders for Outstanding British Film are All Of Us Strangers, How To Have Sex, Napoleon, The Old Oak, Poor Things, Rye Lane, Saltburn, Scrapper, Wonka and The Zone Of Interest.

It was previously announced that the BAFTA Fellowship, the film academy's highest honour, will be presented to actress Samantha Morton.