Chris Sutton presents three key battles for Wednesday's clash at Old Trafford

Manchester United welcome Bayern Munich on Tuesday night with their hopes of staying in the Champions League hanging by a thread.

Only a win will do for Erik ten Hag's men if they are to have a chance of dining at Europe's top table in the New Year and they face a Bayern side unbeaten in the competition this season.

However, Bayern were shaken by a 5-1 defeat at Eintracht Frankfurt over the weekend and United will take confidence from that.

Meanwhile, United fell to a hugely disappointing 3-0 defeat against Bournemouth.

Chris Sutton picks out three key battles to watch out for at Old Trafford.

Manchester United must beat Bayern Munich for a chance to stay in the Champions League

Bruno Fernandes vs Leon Goretzka

The battle of the little and large. One is 5ft 10in and 69kg. The other is 6ft 2in and 82kg.

Fernandes owes his club a big performance, as the captain whose needless booking against Bournemouth means he will miss Liverpool in the Premier League this Sunday.

Goretzka was used in central defence in their last Champions League outing – a 0-0 draw with Copenhagen – but he is a machine in defensive midfield.

He’s an incredibly powerful player who will look to stop Fernandes from spraying those piercing passes that he loves to try.

Bruno Fernandes and Leon Goretzka will be the battle of little and large on Tuesday evening

Antony vs Alphonso Davies

Bayern Munich are already guaranteed to top the group, making it tricky to predict their team. But after losing 5-1 to Eintracht Frankfurt on Saturday, Thomas Tuchel needs a response.

Davies is key to their attacking play. Nobody has been clocked at a faster speed than his 22.4mph in the Bundesliga this season.

Antony didn’t get a lot of change out of Bournemouth left-back Milos Kerkez at the weekend and in all competitions this season, the £86million man is on zero goals and zero assists.

Antony’s attacking output needs improvement but he will have to put in a defensive shift as well because Davies’ forward forays need tracking.

Antony must put in a hefty shift to keep Alphonso Davies at bay - but needs to do damage too

Harry Maguire vs Harry Kane

If only Manchester United had gone in for Kane like they should have, the two Harrys could have been club team-mates as well as country ones.

I admire Maguire for the way he persevered to force his way back into Erik ten Hag’s line-up. He’s shown himself to be a solid character in what appears a toxic changing room, even winning the Premier League’s player of the month for November.

Kane, already on 22 goals in all competitions, is the ultimate test for a central defender.

United desperately need to win this match and to do that, Maguire needs to stop his pal from doing from what he does best.

Harry Maguire has his work cut out against Harry Kane, who has 22 goals in all competitions