Christine McGuinness rushed seven-year-old daughter Felicity to A&E after she suffered a gymnastics injury on Friday.

The TV personality, 35, who also shares ten-year-old twins Peneople and Leo with estranged husband Paddy, took to Instagram Stories to share the news with her followers.

Alongside a snap from triage she revealed Felicity had only suffered a injury and said the little one was made of 'string stuff'.

Writing: 'Currently spending my Saturday here though so [praying] hopefully I'll see you at the charity match tomorrow depending on how my little lady'.

'Just a minor [fingers crossed] injury at gymnastics. She's made of strong stuff so we're good, just another day in the life of a mama!'.

Christine McGuinness, 35, rushed eight-year-old daughter Felicity to A&E after she suffered a gymnastics injury on Friday

The TV personality who also shares ten-year-old twins Peneople and Leo with estranged husband Paddy, took to Instagram Stories to share the news with her followers

She later shared a selfie as they arrived home with fast food as she thanked Macclesfield hospital for their amazing care.

Christine also also thanked the lady in the waiting room for giving Felicity, who is autistic like her mother and siblings, sensory toys.

It comes just 24 hours after she admitted there are 'days she wants to disappear' as she tried to understand her latest 'spiral'.

Christine caused worry among fans after she opened up about the hard times she faces as a person living with autism.

Posting a black and white photo to Instagram, she explained to her 726,000 followers the stages of an 'autism meltdown' using pictures of spirals to help.

Christine, who split from Paddy in 2022, said: ''Might delete later' kinda post (scared emoji).

'Because my autistic self likes to present perfection, this goes against what I like to share but it is part (a small part thankfully my 'moments' are few and far between) of me being authentically autistic me so,' she continued with a breathing out emoji.

'The music in my car helps to block out the noise in my head music is medicine for me,' she continued.

Alongside a snap from triage she revealed Felicity had only suffered a injury and said the little one was made of 'string stuff'

She later shared a selfie as they arrived home with fast food as she thanked Macclesfield hospital for their amazing care

Christine also also thanked the lady in the waiting room for giving Felicity, who is autistic like her mother and siblings, sensory toys (pictured in 2022)

And understanding the spiral really helps, I hope the visual representation helps others too.

'(Every person is different and may feel differently, for me this is very accurate) be kind to yourself, remember it passes, it always passes.

'P.S, I am absolutely fine, I don't want to worry anyone. And my feeling of "I don't want to live anymore" is more often like "I just want to disappear for a while".'

Christine ended her caption on a more positive note, teasing that she will be sharing some 'exciting news'.

But her heartfelt and candid post led to her fans flooding her comments box with their support.

It comes just 24 hours after she admitted there are 'days she wants to disappear' as she tried to understand her latest 'spiral'

Posting a photo and clip to Instagram, she explained to her 726,000 followers the stages of an 'autism meltdown' using pictures of spirals to help

One penned: 'Relatable. Part of our actual lived experience and that's ok. We are enough. What a brilliant role model of self care you give to your amazing children.'

'Big hugs.'

'I hope you are ok. Seek help and support if you need it. X'

'Keeping being your beautiful authentic self. X'

'Well done for sharing your thoughts in this post and hope you feel better in yourself soon Christine.'

For confidential support call Samaritans on 116123 or visit www.samaritans.org