Taylor Swift returned to the stage at the Melbourne Cricket Ground for the second night of the Australian leg of her Eras tour on Saturday night.

The global megastar, 34, sent the jam-packed crowds wild when she made her grand arrival on stage for her epic three-hour setlist amid her first tour Down Under in six years.

She once again attracted a crowd of around 96,000 to the MCG for her second show, after she performed to the biggest crowd of her career on the opening night of her Australian tour.

However, her second show was shrouded in tragedy as it emerged hours before that teenage fan Mieka Pokarier, 16, was killed in a horrific highway crash on Thursday while on a family road trip to see the pop star.

Taylor put on a brave face as she returned to the stage to put on another incredible performance for the thousands of fans who had travelled miles to Melbourne for her show.

Taylor Swift returned to the stage at the Melbourne Cricket Ground for the second night of the Australian leg of her Eras tour on Saturday night

The global megastar, 34, sent the jam-packed crowds wild when she made her grand arrival on stage for her epic three-hour setlist amid her first tour Down Under in six years

For the concert, Taylor once again sported a whole array of eye-catching outfits to encompass every one of her 'Eras', commemorating each of her beloved albums.

She left the crowds screaming at one point in the show as she put her own Australian twist on her smash hit song We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together.

The Grammy-award winning artist personalised her show for her Australian audience with the help of her backing dancer in one hysterical moment.

She was heard saying into the microphone: 'This is exhausting, you know? Like, we are never getting back together.'

Taylor then handed the microphone over to a dancer, who said 'no' as 'naur' in a noticeably Australian twang, sending the crowds absolutely wild.

The Melbourne locals were heard erupting into deafening screams as they were thrilled by the hilarious touch, as Taylor went straight into the track's chorus.

For the concert, Taylor once again sported a whole array of eye-catching outfits to encompass every one of her 'Eras', commemorating each of her beloved albums

She left the crowds screaming at one point in the show as she put her own Australian twist on her smash hit song We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together

Taylor looked ethereal in a gorgeous lilac gown with a tiered skirt as she belted out her famous hits

She later changed into an equally glamorous vibrant yellow gown as she took a break from playing guitar for a melodic piano number

Taylor put on a very energetic display as she stormed the stage with an epic three-hour long show

Huge crowds were also seen descending on the MCG hours ahead of the show as they tried to beat the queues after the record-breaking first concert on Friday night

In keeping with her usual setlist, Taylor treated fans to two surprise songs, and picked a three-song mashup of Getaway Car, August and The Other Side of the Door, as well as This Is Me Trying, sending fans wild.

As well as performing for tens of thousands of fans inside the MCG, hundreds of ticketless fans once again stormed the stadium in a bid to listen into the show.

Despite warnings to stay home, huge crowds of Swifties who weren't able to get their hands on tickets were seen gathering outside the venue for the epic show.

Videos shared to social media documented the chaos as massive crowds were seen singing along in unison and dancing as the MCG was completely overrun by fans.

Just hours ahead of her second concert, Taylor was spotted arriving in chauffeured FBI-style as she made her way to the stadium for sound-check.

A convoy of blacked out Land Rovers were seen driving down Brunton Ave and into the underground carpark of the venue, with one carrying the Shake It Off star.

Huge crowds were also seen descending on the MCG hours ahead of the show as they tried to beat the queues after the record-breaking first concert on Friday night.

96,000 fans descended on the MCG for Taylor's first show, marking the biggest concert of her entire career, while hundreds more ticketless fans gathered outside the stadium to listen in

Despite already having performed at huge sporting stadiums across the US, the opening night of her Australian tour broke records, as she has never performed to a crowd larger than 74,000

Just hours ahead of her second concert on Saturday, Taylor was spotted arriving in chauffeured FBI-style as she made her way to the stadium for sound-check

The global megastar arrived in chauffeured FBI-style as she made her way to the stadium just hours before the show for sound-check

A cavalcade of blacked out Land Rovers were seen driving down Brunton Ave and into the underground carpark of the venue, with one carrying the Shake It Off star

Huge crowds dressed in 'Eras' themed garments were seen descending on the MCG for the hotly-anticipated second night of the tour

Fans in their thousands once again descended on the MCG in the scorching heat to watch Taylor on stage

Huge queues were seen forming up to the merchandise stands as fans made sure to grab the much-sought-after items

The MCG was host to 96,000 fans on Friday night and similarly huge numbers are expected to descend on Saturday for the second show

A massive 96,000 fans descended on the MCG for Taylor's first show, marking the biggest concert of her entire career

Despite already having performed at huge sporting stadiums across the US, the opening night of her Australian tour broke records, as she has never performed to a crowd larger than 74,000.

Reacting to performing at her biggest show to date, Taylor told the 96,000-strong crowd on Friday: 'This is the biggest show we've done on this tour or any tour I have ever done!

'That's the version you get of me tonight, the version that is completely star-struck by the fact that so many of you wanted to hang out with us on Saturday night in Melbourne!'

As well as the huge crowds inside the venue, eager fans who weren't able to get their hands on the sought-after tickets gathered outside the MCG in their masses.

Fans were told by organisers they couldn't bring friendship bracelets on d-rings or carabiners but had to wear all their bracelets, and they were seen with them stacked up their arms

Fans were seen trading the iconic bracelets with other Swifties from around the globe - in line with concert tradition

The merchandise stands were laden with eager fans who made sure to grab their items ahead of the show kicking off

Fans were seen sporting garments from each of Taylor's 'Eras' as they brought their A-game to the shows

The MCG was completely overrun by Swifties as the mania sweeps Australia amid the tour

Swifties pulled out all the stops for the second night of the tour as they brought the glitz and glamour with their outfits

Fans were seen in jovial spirits as they headed to the venue ahead of the superstar taking to the stage

Fans channeled the Fearless Era as they sported sparkling cowboy boots and glitzy pink outfits for the night

Swifties were seen trading their friendship bracelets as the tour tradition was brought Down Under

Some dedicated fans were even seen making some last-minute bracelets to trade as they arrived at the show early

Massive crowds of fans were seen making their way to the concert early to soak up the atmosphere

Fans were seen eagerly lining up outside the MCG ahead of Taylor's second performance

Excited Swifties were seen grinning for snaps as they dressed to the nines in glitzy outfits

Fans pulled out all the stops with their themed outfits and accessories for the show

Fans were quick to get involved with the tour tradition of trading friendship bracelets

Swifties were fully decked out in colourful and glittering ensembles as they headed into the show after picking up their merchandise

Groups of fans embraced the theme as they dressed all in pink for the occasion

Melbourne was completely overrun by Swiftie fever as almost 100,000 fans filled up the stadium, while more ticketless fans gathered outside

Ahead of her Sydney shows next week, Venues NSW warned ticketless fanatics to stay away from Accor Stadium to prevent crowd management issues , The Daily Telegraph reported.

A spokesperson said fans who missed out on tickets should not try to 'soak up the atmosphere' outside, as they likely won't hear any songs anyway.

Meanwhile, Transport NSW coordinator-general Howard Collins said Sydney was 'preparing for the inevitable' ahead of her Sydney shows.

'What we found with other popular music venues where people can't get tickets, people do just turn up to sort of soak up the atmosphere, and you can't stop them other than to manage crowds,' he said.

'We are not encouraging ticketless fans to attend, but part of our contingency plan is allowing for extra people who may be travelling who haven't got tickets.'

But despite warnings from the NSW government, businesses are said to be rolling out the welcome mat for all of Taylor's fans regardless of whether they have tickets.

Taylor will return to the MCG for her final Melbourne show on Sunday night before heading to Accor Stadium in Sydney from February 23 to 26 for second stint of shows.

However, Taylor's Australian Eras tour has also been hit by tragedy after it emerged on Saturday that a teenager was killed in a horrific highway crash while on a family road trip to see the pop star.

Taylor will return to the MCG for her final Melbourne show on Sunday night before heading to Accor Stadium in Sydney from February 23 to 26 for second stint of shows

Mieka Pokarier, 16, died when the SUV she was travelling in with her mother and sister from the Gold Coast in Queensland to Melbourne collided with a semi-trailer near Dubbo.

The crash on Dunedoo Road at Ballimore on Thursday about 6pm also left her younger sister Freya Pokarier, 10, in a critical condition and she was airlifted to Westmead Hospital.

Mieka was understood to have been sitting in the front passenger seat when the crash occurred.

Emergency services rushed to the scene but the teenager could not be saved.

On Saturday Mieka and Freya's father, Peter Pokarier, shared his grief on Facebook.

'That's my baby that died,' he said.

The 10-year-old girl is fighting for her life and is understood to be in a coma with brain injuries. She also suffered a broken pelvis and a broken leg.

The driver of the semi-trailer had minor injuries and was taken to Dubbo Hospital in a stable condition.

Taylor's Australian Eras tour has been hit by tragedy after it emerged that fan Mieka Pokarier, 16, was killed in a horrific highway crash while on a family road trip to see the pop star

The mother of the two girls who was driving the SUV sustained several injuries following the crash and was also taken to Dubbo Hospital.

Images from the scene in the aftermath of the crash show plumes of thick, black smoke rising into the sky.

The Gold Coast-based family were heading down to Melbourne ahead of Taylor's first sold-out concert at the MCG.

Taylor had kicked off the Australian leg of her Eras tour in Melbourne on Friday night with around 96,000 fans in attendance - the biggest concert of her career.

The godmother of the two girls Karleigh Fox said the two girls were very much looking forward to attending the 14-time Grammy Award winner's concert.

'This was supposed to be a road-trip of a lifetime with them going to concerts in both Melbourne and Sydney,' she told the Courier Mail.

A GoFundMe page was set up on Friday to arrange funds for the family, with almost $12,000 raised so far with a target of $20,000.

The teenager died on Thursday when the SUV she was travelling in with her mother and sister from the Gold Coast in Queensland to Melbourne collided with a semi-trailer near Dubbo

'The family have all had to cease work to fly down and I'm trying to get a flight to support the mum as she's alone in Dubbo until we can get her to Sydney,' Ms Fox said.

'Funds will be used to function in this challenging time.'

NSW Police said in a statement that a crime scene was set up as officers continue to investigate the incident.

A report will be prepared for the coroner.

Daily Mail Australia has contacted the Sydney Children's Hospital Network for comment.