Michelle Dockery looked effortlessly chic in black and white as she stepped out for a night out at London's Chiltern Firehouse on Friday.

The Downton Abbey star, 42, beamed as she and other stars let their hair down for the weekend with Brunello Cucinelli as he hosted an intimate dinner to mark appreciation for the British film industry.

Accompanied by her husband, Jasper Waller-Bridge, she cut a trendy figure in a pair of black bell-bottom trousers which ruffled around her ankle following the news filming has secretly started for a new series.

Adding a dash of colour, the brunette beauty - who plays Lady Mary Crawley - teamed her unique garment with a white wool jumper which featured a high polo neck.

Dressing for the weather, she wrapped up in a long black satin trench coat which trailed past her knees.

Michelle Dockery looked effortlessly chic in black and white as she stepped out for a night out at London's Chiltern Firehouse on Friday (pictured with husband Jasper Waller-Bridge)

Michelle was not the only star looking for a night out in the town to celebrate as Tom Hiddleston, 43, looked dapper as ever in a brown corduroy suit featuring a classic double-breasted blazer

Adding inches to her statuesque figure, she finished her stunning look with a pair of black leather boots and a simple black clutch.

She looked incredible as she opted to keep her look natural with a no-makeup look and a wavy hairdo.

Michelle was not the only star looking for a night out in the town to celebrate as Tom Hiddleston was also spotted at the star-studded affair.

The Loki star, 43, looked dapper as ever in a brown corduroy suit featuring a classic double-breasted blazer.

Showcasing his unique sense of style, Tom - who plays Jonathan Pine - paired his snazzy suit with a crisp white shirt and a silver tie.

He kept his look classy with a pair of brown brogues and a gorgeous white smile.

India Ria Amarteifio, 22, sent pulses racing at the glitzy evening as she showed off some leg in a figure-hugging black lace dress.

She kept her outfit elegant as she candidly slung her oversized black winter coat over her shoulders.

Michelle, 42, beamed as she and other stars let their hair down for the weekend following Downton Abbey's return

Adding a dash of colour, the brunette beauty - who plays Lady Mary Crawley - teamed her unique look with a white wool jumper which featured a high polo neck

India Ria Amarteifio, 22, - who plays Queen Charlotte in Queen Charlotte: A Bridgerton Story - showed off some leg in a black lace dress

The stunner - who plays Queen Charlotte in Queen Charlotte: A Bridgerton Story - finished off her jaw-dropping look with a pair of strappy backless black heels.

Eyal Brooker, 28, also appeared at the gathering. He looked handsome as usual in a pair of black cowboy boots and a grey hoodie.

The former Love Island contestant kept it casual with a pair of patchwork jeans and a plain black t-shirt.

American actor Aaron Eckhart cut a very sophisticated look for the evening as he stepped out in a pale blue striped suit.

The Dark Knight star, 55, paired his tailored two-piece with a white shirt and a formal navy blue tie.

He was armed with layers as he was spotted carrying a long beige trench coat when stepping out of the venue.

Josh Brolin also looked charming in a blue suit at the star-studded event.

Former Love Island contestant, Eyal Brooker, 28, also appeared at the gathering. He looked handsome as usual in a pair of black cowboy boots and a grey hoodie

Loki star Aaron Eckhart, 55, cut a very sophisticated look for the evening as he stepped out in a pale blue striped suit

Josh Brolin also looked charming in a blue suit at the star-studded event. The Goonies star, 56, donned a shiny blue suit paired with a black shirt and black suit shoes

He and his wife, Kathryn Boyd, 36, were enjoying a little Friday outing for date night as she stepped out in a pair of towering leather platform boots and a Burberry scarf

Adding a dash of colour to the outing, Kristin Scott Thomas, 63, looked stunning as she stepped out in an emerald green trench coat

The Goonies star, 56, donned a shiny blue suit paired with a black shirt and black suit shoes.

He and his wife, Kathryn Boyd, were enjoying a little Friday outing for date night as she stepped out in a pair of towering leather platform boots and a Burberry scarf.

The Everest star, 36, wrapped up warm for London's cold spell as she was spotted in a thick black trench coat with a fur trim.

Adding a dash of colour to the outing, Kristin Scott Thomas, 63, looked stunning as she stepped out in an emerald green trench coat.

She kept her outfit light and bright, pairing her statement garment with a beige two-piece suit.

The Four Weddings And A Funeral actress finished her glamourous look with beige toe-pointed flats and a gunmetal clutch.

Event hosts Carolina Cucinelli, Co-President and Co-Creative Director and her husband Alessio Piastrelli, Men’s Creative Director welcomed guests from the worlds of film and costume design who gathered for dinner and cocktails to celebrate the British film industry ahead of the 77th annual British Academy Film Awards this Sunday.

Filming has secretly started on a new series of Downton Abbey.

The period drama – the last episode of which was aired a little over eight years ago – is making a surprise comeback in a seventh series.

Bosses hoped to be able to bring back some of the big name actors such as Michelle, Hugh Bonneville , Elizabeth McGovern and Joanne Froggatt who appeared in the previous six seasons and two movie spin-offs.

While it is not known if all of them have signed up, chiefs are said to be 'thrilled' with their casting.

The return of the show, which was filmed at Highclere Castle in Hampshire and which covered the many societal changes and world events between 1912 and 1928, is expected to be on screen at the end of the year.

The cast of the first season of Downtown Abbey, which premiered in 2010, is pictured above

For the new season bosses hoped to be able to bring back some of the big name actors such as Hugh Bonneville (left), Michelle Dockery, Elizabeth McGovern (right) and Joanne Froggatt who appeared in the previous six seasons and two movie spin-offs

It is understood that it will be on ITV, where it was broadcast from 2010 until 2015.

Old episodes of Downton are well watched on the channel's streaming platform ITVX so TV insiders expect they will do what they can to stop it going to rivals such as Netflix or Amazon.

A source close to the project told the Mail: 'Filming has been going on for a few weeks now, it is all very, very secret. There are people working on it who have never seen secrecy like it.

'Those working on the set have been made to sign non-disclosure agreements so that they don't give the game away but there is a lot of excitement at the return of Downton.

'It was such a huge success before and there are so many more stories to be told, it seemed such a shame not to be able to make more of it but they've made it happen.'

The Mail on Sunday revealed last May that bosses were hoping to revive the series and in December creator Julian Fellowes did not rule out the return when asked if it would make a comeback.

He told Radio Times: 'I have said goodbye to Downton so many times, and I have written the last scene about six or seven times. Now I've got out of the habit of making permanent statements about whether it's gone.

'It just gives me a lot of pleasure that so many people enjoyed it, so to feel that you created a show that cheers people up and they had a good time with it, I love that.'

The final episode of the show – which acted as a launch pad for the careers of Ms Dockery, who played Lady Mary, Lily James, who played Lady Rose, and Jessica Brown Findlay, who played Lady Sybil, was aired on Christmas Day 2015, with the viewing figure peaking at 7.4million.

In the finale, viewers saw Edith – portrayed by Laura Carmichael – and Bertie, played by Harry Hadden-Patton, finally get married, on New Year's Eve 1925.

The final series was followed by two movies, one in 2019 and the other in 2022.