BBC iPlayer is set to end downloads for computers and laptops – and users aren't happy.

The news has sparked outcry on X (formely Twitter), with one furious user calling it 'an illogical decision'.

Another said: 'I honestly don't know what's up with the BBC, they seem to be trying their best to destroy themselves.'

Another posted: 'Why?? This is terrible news. I watch almost all my BBC shows on my MacBook.'

Other users were frustrated that they were being pushed to watch content on a smaller screen whenever they wanted to watch iPlayer downloads.

BBC iPlayer is making a major change next month - and it's bad news for anyone who watches their favourite shows on a computer or laptop

The decision seems to spark outcry on social media, with one calling it 'an illogical decision' on X (Twitter)

iPlayer axes downloads for PCs and Macs From Friday 2 February , new users will be unable to download and install the BBC iPlayer Downloads app

, new users will be unable to download and install the BBC iPlayer Downloads app From Monday 11 March , users will no longer be able to download programmes from the web. Users will still be able to watch any existing downloads until Monday 8 April 2024

, users will no longer be able to download programmes from the web. Users will still be able to watch any existing downloads until Monday 8 April 2024 From Monday 8 April , the BBC iPlayer Downloads app will be closed Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sciencetech/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

One posted: 'I DO NOT want to peer at a tiny mobile screen with poor sound quality to watch a film/drama/wildlife program, etc, originally produced in HD.'

The BBC said it has made the 'difficult decision' due to the 'low number of people using it and the cost required to keep it going'.

People who watch BBC iPlayer downloads on their smartphone or tablet are unaffected, it added.

'This does not affect downloads on the BBC iPlayer mobile or tablet apps and viewers can continue to stream programmes on BBC iPlayer on their PCs and Macs,' a spokesperson said.

On mobile phones, the ability to download content on BBC iPlayer is built into the app for iOS and Android.

However, on desktop, users have had to download a dedicated app – the BBC iPlayer Downloads App.

Already since the start of February, the app has been unavailable to download as the BBC prepares to end the service.

From March 11, the streaming service will no longer let users download content onto PC or Mac, the BBC has confirmed.

'My phone screen is tiny': Users are frustrated that they were being pushed to watch content on a smaller screen whenever they wanted to watch iPlayer downloads

Another posted: 'Why?? This is terrible news. I watch almost all my BBC shows on my MacBook'

READ MORE TV Licence fee to increase by £10.50 on April 1 Licence fee revenue is used to fund the BBC Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sciencetech/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_2 - ->

People will still be able to watch any existing downloads on their PC or Mac until April 8, after which date the service will cease to exist.

It means everyone will need an internet connection if they want to watch iPlayer content on their computer or laptop.

Alternatively, if they still want to watch iPlayer downloads, they'll have to use a smartphone or tablet instead.

BBC iPlayer downloads have been essential for workers who like to watch content on their laptop during the commute.

When watching iPlayer with an internet connection on the move, the service can be temperamental when users enter 'not-spot' areas of low network coverage.

An alternative is using mobile data as a personal hotspot to connect the laptop to the internet, but this could push them towards more expensive data allowances.

BBC iPlayer is a free service in so much that it doesn't debit a monthly fee, unlike other streaming giants such as Netflix or Disney+.

This iPlayer message is telling users about the decision to end downloads for desktop and laptop computers, both PC and Mac

Pictured, the BBC iPlayer Downloads App. The BBC has started the process of closing the BBC iPlayer Downloads appl for PC and Mac

However, it does require the account owner to pay a TV licence, which will rise in cost from £159 to £169.50 from April 1 this year.

That equates to a monthly cost of just over £14 – nearly three times the cost of Netflix's cheapest tier (£4.99).

BBC chiefs had reportedly hoped for a bigger price hike to the TV licence.

However, ministers pushed for them to settle for an increase in line with September's 6.7 per cent inflation rate instead of the longer-term 9 per cent inflation rate.

Although the licence fee is not a payment for BBC services, licence fee revenue is used to fund the BBC.