An American traveler has revealed her tips for handling an international flight like a pro, including the importance of hydration and the best time to sleep.

TikTok user MK is known as @localbaepsae on the platform, where she shares her travel advice and personal recommendations with her 2,000 followers.

The content creator recently went viral after detailing her list of rules for traveling internationally following a 15-hour flight from Atlanta, Georgia, to South Korea.

'Trust me, I figured out a couple of things,' she said.

TikTok user MK is known as @localbaepsae on the platform, where she shares her travel advice and personal recommendations

The content creator recently went viral after detailing her list of rules for traveling internationally following a 15-hour flight from Atlanta, Georgia, to South Korea

MK explained that her first rule of 'surviving an international flight day' is drinking as much water as you can before you board the plane.

'I do not care if you're not normally a water drinker. I do not care if you cannot hold your pee,' she said. 'This is the day where you are going to chug so much water before you get to the airport.'

She noted that you don't want to get dehydrated, but you also don't want to be getting up to use the bathroom every five minutes on your flight.

'So you're going to drink your water before you get there,' she continued. 'You can still drink water on the plane, but try to get as much in as you can before you get on the plane. Thank me later.'

MK also recommended eating something for breakfast, although she acknowledged that some people aren't hungry first thing in the morning.

'Just try your best,' she said.

The travel guru explained that she likes to arrive at the airport three hours before her international flight to check her bags, go through security, and get settled.

You then have the option of going to an airport lounge or finding someplace to camp out until your flight starts boarding.

MK explained that she drinks as much water as she can before she arrives at the airport and follows a pre-boarding ritual that includes her skincare routine and compression socks

MK noted this is a good time to drink even more water and check that everything you may want or need while you're in the air is in your personal bag, not your carry-on.

She said the 'most critical step aside from drinking water' is doing a pre-boarding ritual before stepping on the plane.

MK does her full nighttime skincare routine, puts on her compression socks, and uses the restroom one more time before boarding.

'Do not do your skincare on the plane because all that recycled air is going to be so, so nasty,' she warned. 'You want to set up your defenses before you get on the plane.'

MK explained that when you get to your seat, you should use sanitizing wipes to disinfect the entire area, including the tray table and front pocket.

'I know that they wipe it down, but if you want to be extra like me do a second wipe. Just so you know you're not trying to get sick on your trip,' she said.

'Now apply the thickest hand lotion that you can find. Literally just smother yourself. Again, dry air. The theme is hydration here.'

MK recommended staying awake until at least the first meal service and taking your sleep aid while you are eating.

'By the time you're done eating, you'll be ready to take a nice nap,' she said. 'Make sure your phone is charging and you should be good to go.'

MK said you should also stretch and stand up periodically. She likes to go to the bathroom halfway through her flight to brush her teeth, change her underwear, and reapply lip balm

MK acknowledged that you will likely be exhausted by the time you get to your hotel or Airbnb, but she stressed that you should try to stay up until your normal bedtime

The traveler advised using your destination's time zone as a guide to decide when to sleep and stay awake.

MK explained that she tried napping at 12pm on her flight from Atlanta to South Korea to adjust to the 13-hour time difference and fight jet lag.

She suggested watching TV if you're struggling to stay awake and getting cozy with a pair of in-flight slippers if the airline offers them to you.

MK said you should also stretch periodically and get up when you need to. She likes to go to the bathroom halfway through her flight to brush her teeth, change her underwear, and reapply lip balm.

She warned that you should not jump into the aisle when the plane lands unless you have a connecting flight.

'This should just be a blanket statement for all flights,' she said. 'Don't be the guy that blocks the walkway and tries to cut off the people that are in the rows ahead of them. Just wait your turn.'

MK also advised sticking to English at immigration checkpoints if you are not fluent in the local language.

'You're going to end up holding the line up if you're trying to practice,' she said.

Finally, before leaving the airport, you should grab your checked luggage, get a transit card if you will be taking public transit, and make sure your phone service is working.

MK acknowledged that you will likely be exhausted by the time you get to your hotel or Airbnb, but she stressed that you should try to stay up until your normal bedtime.

'Just try so that you can adjust to the jet lag fast,' she concluded.