She was honoured with the EE BAFTA Rising Star award during Sunday's glitzy ceremony after a public vote.

And Mia McKenna-Bruce ensured she celebrated her win in style as she headed to the British Vogue and Tiffany & Co. celebrate Fashion and Film party at Annabel’s.

The 26-year-old star of coming-of-age film How To Have Sex looked in high spirits as she made her way into the bash in a little black dress that showed off her incredible legs.

The halterneck garment was adorned with glittering embellishment and also offered a look at her toned arms.

Mia added to the look with a pair of diamond earrings and gave her petite frame a boost with a pair of peeptoe heels.

Mia McKenna-Bruce partied the night away after her EE BAFTA Rising Star Award win as she headed to the British Vogue and Tiffany & Co. celebrate Fashion and Film party at Annabel’s

Mia's BAFTA win earlier in the night was a result of a public vote.

She appeared emotional on stage as she thanked her family and her 'beautiful baby boy'.

Mia that she hopes her little sisters, who do not think 'I'm cool', will change their mind after her win.

The biggest night in British film returned with actor David Tennant as host and an array of guest presenters on hand to deliver awards throughout the night.

Prince William attended the ceremony in London solo as his wife Kate Middleton continues her recovery from last month's abdominal surgery.

Oppenheimer won Best Film as well as sweeping the board in the major categories at the EE BAFTA Film Awards at The Royal Festival Hall.

The epic biographical thriller led the wins with seven gongs, including Best Actor for Cillian Murphy, Best Supporting Actor for Robert Downey Jr. and Best Director for Christopher Nolan. It had the most nominations with 13.

Oppenheimer swept up in the big name categories, but it was closely followed by the surreal black comedy Poor Things.

It marked five awards for the film, including Emma Stone collecting the Best Actress gong for her turn as Bella Baxter.

Meanwhile, Da'Vine Joy Randolph crowned victorious in the Best Supporting Actress category for her part in The Holdovers as she continues her march to Oscars glory.

The 26-year-old star of coming-of-age film How To Have Sex looked in high spirits as she made her way into the bash in a little black dress that showed off her incredible legs

Next up, Director Jonathan Glazer and producer James Wilson's The Zone Of Interest won the BAFTA for Outstanding British Film.

The night kicked off with French legal drama Anatomy Of A Fall winning the Original Screenplay award after premiering in Cannes back in May.

Poor Things won the BAFTA for special visual effects.

Following this, drama film Earth Mama was honoured with the BAFTA outstanding debut by a British writer, director or producer, presented by David Beckham.

The Zone Of Interest won the BAFTA for a film not in the English language.

The BAFTA for Casting was awarded to Susan Shopmaker for private school-set The Holdovers, while the editing award has gone to Jennifer Lame for Second World War biopic Oppenheimer.

Comedy drama American Fiction won Best Adapted Screenplay.

The Boy And The Heron won the Best Animated Film Bafta.

Mia was no doubt in the mood to party after her big win, which was the result of a public vote

Mia was overcome with emotion as she accepted the award earlier in the evening as she thanked her family and her 'beautiful baby boy'

Mia has won rave reviews for her breakout role in coming-of-age drama How To Have Sex

The Documentary BAFTA went to 20 Days In Mariupol, which highlights the work of Associated Press journalists in the besieged Ukrainian city during the Russian invasion.

The BAFTA for Production Design went to Shona Heath, James Price and Zsuzsa Mihalek for surreal comedy Poor Things, about a woman who is reanimated and begins a new life.

It was previously announced the BAFTA for Outstanding British Contribution to Cinema would go to programmer and archivist June Givanni, founder of the Pan African Film Archive, who collected the prize during the ceremony from Bridgerton star Adjoa Andoh.

Samantha Morton collected the BAFTA Fellowship from producer David Heyman, who she worked with on Fantastic Beasts And Where To Find Them.

The BAFTA Rising Star award was won by Mia Mckenna-Bruce following a public vote.

Margot Robbie, Emily Blunt, Emma Stone and Florence Pugh were among the star-studded arrivals earlier in the evening on the glitzy red carpet.