Bayern Munich will not sack Thomas Tuchel despite slipping eight points behind Bundesliga leaders Bayer Leverkusen after losing to Bochum, reports claim.

Pressure is rapidly building on Tuchel with the German giants staring down the barrel of their first trophyless season in 12 years, and their shock 3-2 loss on Sunday proved to be their third damaging defeat in a row across all competitions.

In a surprise move, Bayern cancelled the boss' post-match press conference, leading to speculation that they would soon pull the trigger in a bid to salvage their season.

However, Sky Germany reporter Florian Plettenberg revealed Tuchel will remain in post and that he is refusing to contemplate resigning owing to his desire to fight on.

A nightmare week for Bayern also saw them lose to Xabi Alonso's Leverkusen, who ran out emphatic 3-0 winners, and to Lazio in the Champions League last-16.

Thomas Tuchel will reportedly not be sacked by Bayern Munich despite their loss by Bochum

Bayern are facing their first trophyless season in 12 years and are eight points adrift of top spot

🚨🔴 News #Tuchel:



➡️ Confirmed again: He will definitely remain as the coach of FC Bayern and will not be dismissed ✔️



➡️ Tuchel is also not considering resigning. He wants to keep fighting! @SkySportDE 🇩🇪 pic.twitter.com/JNAH6RLaMk — Florian Plettenberg (@Plettigoal) February 18, 2024

Your browser does not support iframes.

But Tuchel has been shown support by club CEO Jan-Christian Dreesen, with the kingpin insisting that the embattled head coach will not be dismissed.

'I feel rubbish,' Dreesen said post-match. 'I don't believe in big statements about the coach. This issue isn't on our mind at the moment.'

Pressed on whether Tuchel would be at the helm next week, he replied: 'Of course.'

Bayern took the lead against Bochum through Jamal Musiala, though the fixture was twice interrupted by protests from supporters over private Bundesliga investment.

The hosts turned the match on its head before half-time, however, after Takuma Asano and Keven Schlotterbeck both netted to leave Bayern teetering once again.

Kevin Stoger then scored Bochum's third from the penalty spot before under-fire defender Dayot Upamecano was sent off for the second time in as many matches.

Tuchel will remain in charge next week, Bayern CEO Jan-Christian Dreesen has confirmed

Underdogs Bochum fought back from behind to take a 3-1 lead and held out for three points

Despite Harry Kane's 25th Bundesliga goal of the season, Bayern fell to a third straight defeat

And despite Harry Kane scoring his 25th league goal of the season late on, Bayern were unable to spare their blushes and force a share of the spoils.

'I don't think today's defeat was fair, I think a lot went against us today,' Tuchel said.

'I think we had an expected goals value of 3.4 and we had four, five, six top chances.

'We completely dominated the game and actually went behind out of nowhere.

'We never stopped putting in the effort until the end and then played with a man down. A lot went against us today. I feel today's defeat is different to the last two.'

Bayern return to action against RB Leipzig in the top-flight on February 24.