David Tennant has proved to be a hit with viewers following his debut as BAFTA Film Awards host at The Royal Festival Hall on Sunday evening.

The Doctor Who actor, 52, who took over the reigns from last year's host Richard E Grant, has been widely praised for his presenting skills on social media.

David brought some serious style to the occasion, sporting a total of three dramatic looks throughout the evening, including an embellished kilt and jacket combo.

David kicked off the night with an unusual co-host - Michael Sheen's pet dog with the suitably starry name of Bark Ruffalo.

The Scottish actor began off the awards with a Staged-style sketch, which aired during the Covid pandemic, about dog-sitting Michael's pet.

David Tennant has proved to be a hit with viewers following his debut as BAFTA Film Awards host at The Royal Festival Hall on Sunday evening

David kicked off the night with an unusual co-host - Michael Sheen 's pet dog with the suitably starry name of Bark Ruffalo

THE BAFTA WINNERS AT A GLANCE Best Film - Oppenheimer Best Director - Christopher Nolan, Oppenheimer Supporting Actor - Robert Downey Jr, Oppenheimer Leading Actor - Cillian Murphy, Oppenheimer Leading Actress - Emma Stone, Poor Things Supporting Actress - Da'vine Joy Randolph, The Holdovers Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Viewers were treated to a Zoom-like call with David's co-star Michael, which showed the star sat in his kitchen with a grey kilt hanging up in the background.

David starts the call with Michael immediately saying: 'I don't have time for pleasantries David, some of us are big in America.'

The Welsh actor attempts to confirm if he can drop off his new pet, Bark Ruffalo, paying homage to Poor Things and Hulk actor Mark Ruffalo, on Sunday morning, to which David replies he cannot.

'I don't want any of your excuses, David, you promised,' Michael says, adding: 'And I can't leave him with the neighbour because he peed in their kitchen.'

David's wife, Georgia, then walks into frame, where she says sarcastically: 'Whereas we are desperate for him to pee in our kitchen?'

Michael ends the call asking David t to sort out the issue, before the Scottish actor proceeds to frantically message fellow celebrities to find a dog-sitter.

American actor Stanley Tucci joins the Zoom call and initially agrees to the favour, but quickly ridicules David for believing he is being serious.

'And the BAFTA for catching on very quickly goes to,' Stanley jokes while pointing at David.

David brought some serious style to the occasion, sporting a total of three dramatic looks throughout the evening, including an embellished kilt and jacket combo

The Doctor Who actor, 52, who took over the reigns from last year's host Richard E Grant , has been widely praised for his presenting skills on social media

The Scottish actor began off the awards with a Staged-style sketch, which aired during the Covid pandemic, about dog-sitting Michael's pet

David then calls Yesterday actor Himesh Patel who pretends his video is frozen until someone walks past in the background.

When David points this out, Himesh lets out a sigh, and says: 'Look, I know you're just calling because you want something,' before pretending his screen has frozen again.

The next person David calls is Loki star Tom Hiddleston who asks the actor for his new pitch.

'The pitch is dog sitting for Michael Sheen,' David says.

Tom appears impressed and replied: 'Wow. OK, yeah, interesting. So we're going for, life? Funny?'

Tom talks enthusiastically about potentially creating a film about Michael's dog-sitting situation, while David looks on confused.

'Did your agent tell you I wanted to talk to you about a film?' David asks.

'Obviously. Unless you're actually calling me to dog sit for Michael Sheen,' Tom replies.

The sketch kicked off the show as David struggled to find a dog sitter for Bark Ruffalo

He was forced to bring the pet pooch with him after failing to find a sitter

A stressed looking David could be seen holding the dog as he arrived

The ceremony then began with David entering the auditorium through the audience

He was holding Bark Ruffalo and other pet-related items including a blanket and a lead

The call ends before the screen switches to show Dame Judi Dench who tells David: 'I thought you were going to be that beautiful Michael Sheen.'

Asked if she could look after Bark Ruffalo, Dame Judi says: 'He pees everywhere, and anyway, I should be watching the BAFTAs with a big glass of Champagne.'

Dame Judi points out the kilt in the background, to which David replies: 'Wait and see'.

The ceremony then began with David entering the auditorium through the audience, wearing the kilt and holding Bark Ruffalo and other pet-related items including a blanket and a lead.

Laughter was heard throughout the venue when David notices Michael sitting in the front row, and they argue about who should keep hold of the pet before Michael relents and lets his co-star begin his hosting monologue dog-free.

Fans revealed they loved the comedy sketch between David, Michael and Bark Ruffalo, taking to Twitter to share their appreciation online.

Fans revealed they loved the comedy sketch between David, Michael and Bark Ruffalo, taking to Twitter to share their appreciation online

They said: 'No way has David Tennant come to the BAFTAs with his dog David and Michael Sheen already stole the show with this adorable dog.'

'David Tennant steals the show at BAFTAs with his dog David and Michael Sheen lmao.'

David holding Michael's dog!? Can't have David Tennant host the BAFTAs without some kind of silly shenanigans with Michael.'

Other viewers more broadly praised his hosting debut and demanded that David be picked to 'host every awards ceremony' in the future.

They said: 'Are we all in agreement that David Tennant killed the hosting gig for the BAFTAs?'

'Yeah, can David Tennant host the EE BAFTAs every year?'

'Can David Tennant host everything? Preferably in a kilt. With Michael Sheen? Thanks.'

'It was better than all the awards ceremonies this year because the host, David Tennant, was great. David can present all the award ceremonies. None of us will say no to this.'

'David Tennant interacting with fellow actors in a way that is ACTUALLY funny, like let this man host everything pls.'

Other viewers more broadly praised his hosting debut and demanded that David be picked to 'host every awards ceremony' in the future