Gary O’Neil tried not to sit back and bask in the plaudits after another clinical London raid by Wolves and sparkling displays by some of his players.

Instead, he spoke of improving Pedro Neto’s contributions out of possession and broader understanding of his role in the team, and of refining two-goal Joao Gomes on the ball.

O’Neil promised to keep working until Wolves had cracked the puzzle of how to beat those teams who sit back and deny them space to counter attack but it was impossible to hide his delight.

Another slick and impressive away win on Saturday, 2-1 at Tottenham, another one of the self-appointed aristocrats of the Premier League toppled, and his team eased on to 35 points.

That in itself is a laudable achievement for Wolves in a campaign they started in disarray when Julen Lopetegui quit.

Wolves' impressive recent form continued with a 2-1 victory over Tottenham on Saturday

Gary O'Neil has been instrumental in transforming the side he took over in the summer

Your browser does not support iframes.

Just as he did at Bournemouth last season, O’Neil parachuted in like Winston Wolf, the world-weary problem-solver and cleaner-upper portrayed by Harvey Keitel in Pulp Fiction, and set to work.

Wolves have taken 15 points from the Premier League’s traditional Big Six this season. They have completed a double over Chelsea, beaten Manchester City and punctured the Angeball revolution twice. Sixteen points from the past eight games is Champions League form.

Add all those points lost when a series of awful VAR decisions conspired against them and they would be in the thick of the race for European football.

Seven months in and O’Neil can be proud of his work. Surprisingly overlooked for the Manager of the Year shortlist last season, he must feature this time.

He has forged a team capable of taking down the best in the Premier League, tactically balanced with a fighting spirit, having successfully harnessed feelings of injustice and the pain of being written-off as candidates for the drop and turned that into motivation.

‘At the beginning of the season, a lot of people said that we were going to be relegated,’ said midfielder Mario Lemina.

‘We are showing that is not the case. I don’t care about it because I know the team we have and if someone trusted in us I knew what we could achieve.’

Wolves have a pleasing balance, built on the stability of a decent goalkeeper and three strong, reliable and physical centre halves. There is great energy on the flanks, two industrious all-round midfielders capable of covering the miles, winning the ball and finding passes, and there is some genuine creative talent up front.

Tottenham, meanwhile, had more than 70 per cent possession but looked like they might let a goal in every time they lost it.

Mario Lemina insisted O'Neil's belief in his side's ability has been central to their success

‘We have to be disciplined,’ said Dejan Kulusevski, who scored the Spurs goal. ‘We conceded too many counter attacks and they could score even more goals. You have to be positive but you always have to protect your goal and we didn’t do that good enough.’

Spurs under Ange Postecoglou have found it hardest against those teams as dangerous on the break as Wolves. They lost heavily at Brighton, and at home against Aston Villa, West Ham and Chelsea. All six of their defeats in the Premier League this season have come with a depleted back four.

‘It’s the worst feeling, I hate to lose,’ said Kulusevski. ‘Now we have two weeks where we cannot win a game. We are going to come back stronger, 13 games left and I’m sure we are going to do really good.’