Two police officers and a paramedic who went to their aid were shot dead after responding to a ‘domestic incident’ at a Minneapolis home on Sunday morning.

Cops Paul Elmstrand and Matthew Ruge, both 27, and firefighter and paramedic Adam Finseth, 40, were killed. Another police officer, Sgt. Adam Medlicott, was injured and being treated at a hospital with what are believed to be non-life-threatening injuries.

The officers were called to a report of a ‘family in danger’ at a house in 33rd Avenue South, Burnsville, shortly after 2.30am.

A shelter-in-place alert was sent to phones in the area 15 miles south of the city center and a third police officer was shot and injured before the gunman killed himself.

Burnsville police officer Matthew Ruge. The officers were called to a report of a ‘family in danger’ at a house in 33rd Avenue South, Burnsville, shortly after 2.30am

Burnsville police officer Paul Elmstrand

Burnsville firefighter and paramedic Adam Finseth

Minnesota state governor Tim Walz has ordered flags to be flown at half-staff starting from sunrise tomorrow, and the killings have appalled police departments across the state.

‘We are heartbroken. Our law enforcement community is heartbroken,’ tweeted The Minnesota Police and Peace Officers Association.

‘We’re just devastated at the horrific loss. These heroes leave behind loved ones and a community who will forever remember their bravery and dedication keeping Minnesotans safe.’

Dozens of heavily armed police officers descended on the street and a SWAT vehicle was seen with multiple bullet holes on its windshield.

A barricade situation developed amid fears that hostages were being held inside the home and the gunman is thought to have killed himself shortly before 6am.

Dozens of heavily armed officers descended on the street in Burnsville after the shooting in the early hours of Sunday morning

Officers had been called to a report of a ‘family in danger’ at a house in 33rd Avenue South, around 15 miles south of Minneapolis city center

Authorities in the state are expected told a press conference shortly

'While responding to a call of a family in danger, two police officers and one firefighter lost their lives, and other officers were injured,' the governor tweeted.

'We must never take for granted the bravery and sacrifices our police officers and first responders make every day. My heart is with their families today and the entire State of Minnesota stands with Burnsville.'

Rep. Jim Nash tweeted: ‘My heart is heavy for the families of these officers, the community of Burnsville, and for our country because this headline is not unique.’

‘Learned from police this morning that three officers have been shot in Burnsville,’ Sen. Amy Klobuchar added.

‘They were doing their jobs. They were protecting our community.’

A SWAT vehicle was seen with multiple bullet holes in its windscreen after being withdrawn

Police departments from across the city and the state dispatched vehicles as a show of support to the Hennepin Healthcare Hospital in downtown Minneapolis where the injured officer is thought to have been taken.

Minneapolis Police Chief Brian O'Hara asked that people ‘keep Burnsville Police in your prayers.’