King Charles and Queen Camilla took time to wave at those gathered at Sandringham this morning as the royal couple attended church - despite being caught in a heavy downpour.

The King, who's currently undergoing treatment for 'a form of cancer', offered a smile and a wave out from underneath his umbrella as he arrived at St Mary Magdalene Church on Sunday.

The monarch, 75, and his wife Queen Camilla, 76, were greeted by Rev Canon Paul Williams ahead of the service and looked in good spirits as they smiled at well-wishers who had also braved the Norfolk rain.

The King, wearing his signature long brown coat and brown suede brogues, strolled alongside Queen Camilla, who was wearing a dark dress coat with black suede boots and carrying a green leather handbag.

Rain won't stop play! King Charles, who revealed earlier this month that he is suffering from 'a form of cancer', and Queen Camilla, pictured at church this morning

The monarch, 75, and his wife Queen Camilla, 76, were greeted by Rev Canon Paul Williams ahead of the service at St Mary Magdalene Church

Keeping his usual brisk pace on the quarter mile long path from Sandringham House to the 18th century church, the King walked in public view to the Holy Communion service.

A crowd of around 20 well wishers and a similar number of photographers and reporters were once again kept back from entering the paddock area where they would have been able to see the Royal couple close up.

Instead they were kept around 150 yards away at the entrance to the paddock area so they had to glimpse the King from a distance.

Jenny Young, 39, who was visiting Norfolk with her husband Matthew, 41, and their children Oscar, ten, and Jessica, eight, said she thought the King was 'looking very well'.

After the service had finished, the rain began to dry up, with the King and Queen smiling once more at those gathered

The couple have attended the Sunday service regularly while staying at Sandringham, the King's Norfolk estate

Positive: One well-wisher, Mrs Young of Dormanstand, Surrey, said of the king: 'I am sure he has good days and bad days, but he was looking very well from here'

The King is travelling down to London regularly by Royal helicopter to receive treatment for his recently diagnosed cancer

Sharon Growcott, 46, of Royston, Hertfordshire, who was also visiting Sandringham while staying at her holiday home in the area, said: He looked surprisingly well.

'It is good to see that he is getting out and about, and keeping up his routine of going to church.

I am quite surprised that there was only a handful of people here, but the weather is pretty awful.'

Ms Growcott's friend Sandrine Gamaury, 53, of Royston who is staying with her, said: 'The King was striding along. He looked really good.'

Mrs Young of Dormanstand, Surrey, said: 'We were in the area so we thought we would come and have a look. The King seemed to be walking well.

'I didn't really know what to expect. I am sure he has good days and bad days, but he was looking very well from here.'

The King wore his signature long brown coat as he strolled alongside Queen Camilla, who was wearing a dark dress coat with black suede boots

The King kept his usual brisk pace as he arrived for the Sunday church service on the Norfolk Estate

The royal couple pictured on the pathway leading to St. Mary Magdalene's church

Buckingham Palace revealed nearly two weeks ago that Charles had started treatment for an unspecified cancer which was discovered during his surgery for an enlarged prostate.

The King is said to be spending most of his time on his 20,000 acre estate Sandringham where he can get privacy and seclusion.

But he appears to be heading down to London regularly by Royal helicopter to get treatment.

Charles returned to London last Tuesday, when he and the Queen were seen in their state Bentley car after touching down in Buckingham Palace.

Flight tracker records suggest he was flown back from London to once again enjoy the peace and quiet of Sandringham on Wednesday.

One of those well-wishers who'd gathered to catch a glimpse of Charles said: 'The King was striding along. He looked really good'

In a letter published by Sandringham House, where he has been staying since leaving the London Clinic on January 29, the Monarch said shortly after he disclosed he was being treated that he was 'heartened' to hear his experience is inspiring others up and down the country to get themselves checked.

The note, signed by Charles R, read: 'I would like to express my most heartfelt thanks for the many messages of support and good wishes I have received in recent days.

'As all those who have been affected by cancer will know, such kind thoughts are the greatest comfort and encouragement.

'It is equally heartening to hear how sharing my own diagnosis has helped promote public understanding and shine a light on the work of all those organisations which support cancer patients and their families across the UK and wider world.

'My lifelong admiration for their tireless care and dedication is all the greater as a result of my own personal experience.'

Buckingham Palace confirmed the King, who only acceded to the throne 17 months ago, does not have prostate cancer, saying only that he has a 'form of cancer'.

Queen Camilla sheltered under a fashionable transparent umbrella as she walked behind the King

The King chatted to the Rev Canon Williams as the two men strode to the church's entrance

He was diagnosed after a 'separate issue of concern was noted' and was investigated while he was being treated for his benign enlarged prostate.

The King will continue resting at the Norfolk estate where he has been based since leaving hospital following his prostate treatment.

All public engagements have been cancelled but those close to the monarch joked that he will continue to work through his 'red boxes' of paperwork 'before he's had his boiled egg in the morning.'

A friend told the Mail: 'Boredom will be one of the hardest things for him.'

Another said the King will likely to spend some his time listening to his beloved records of the late Canadian singer Leonard Cohen, specifically the poetic song Take This Waltz, which he has described as 'very moving'.

Last week: The King and Queen pictured making the same walk last week; the couple have attended church regularly since the Monarch's diagnosis

Following the announcement of the King's illness, his youngest son, Prince Harry, 39, flew to London from California where he lives with his wife Meghan Markle and their two children.

The Duke of Sussex took a commercial British Airways flight from Los Angeles arriving at Buckingham Palace.

He then spent around 45 minutes chatting with his father, which is thought to be their first proper contact in 15 months.

It was their first formal meeting in person since the late Queen Elizabeth II's funeral in September 2022.

The father and son had a 'brief meeting' before the King and Camilla were driven to Buckingham Palace where a helicopter was waiting to take them back to Sandringham.

For his journey back to the States, Harry was spotted in Heathrow's exclusive Windsor Suite as he prepared to fly back that afternoon.

It is believed that the royal did not see his estranged brother and heir to the throne Prince William, or sister-in-law Kate.

Harry is expected to return to Britain in May for a service at St Paul's Cathedral to mark the tenth anniversary of the Invictus Games.

Meanwhile, the heir to the throne William, 41, has been taking on some of the King's duties but sources confirmed his priority is to 'support his wife and his family'.

The Princess of Wales, 42, is on the mend taking extended leave while she continues to recover from abdominal surgery.

Kate joined her husband and their three children - Prince George, Princess Charlotte and Prince Louis - for a half-term holiday at Sandringham, the Mail's Richard Eden reported.

A friend said: 'Catherine is recovering well. She was looking forward to a change of scene and will be able to take it easy in Norfolk while the children let off steam with William.'

William has no further duties scheduled this week. A source said: 'The Prince has always made clear that his priority is to support his wife and family for the time being – and he did not put a timescale on that.

'He will make a return to duties on Wednesday but you should not expect to see him again for a bit after that.'

It is understood that William has his father's '100 per cent' backing in returning at his own pace.

A source said: 'The King adores Catherine and thinks she is doing a wonderful job. He understands that family comes first.'