Another fertility clinic used a product that is feared to have destroyed frozen eggs and embryos belonging to dozens of women, regulators revealed today.

Twenty-nine women were caught up in the scare at Sheffield's Jessop Fertility, which takes both NHS and private patients.

But none were actually given the 'faulty' product, a spokesperson insisted.

Last night it was revealed that up to 136 women who underwent treatment at Guy’s and St Thomas' NHS Trust in London might have heartbreakingly lost the chance of becoming biological mothers because of the same problem.

Rachel Cutting, from the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority (HFEA), said the issue was 'limited' to just the two named clinics.

She added: 'Our ongoing investigation only relates to Guy's, as we are satisfied that Jessop’s undertook a thorough investigation when they first became aware of the issue and contacted and supported any patient affected.

'The company supplying the product directly to clinics will know exactly where it’s gone through their traceability processes.

'Any patients likely to have been affected will have been notified by their clinic.'

*** Have YOU been told your eggs or embryos are no longer viable? Email John Ely at john.ely@mailonline.co.uk ***

Jessop Fertility clinic in Sheffield, attached to Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, has been named as the second clinic affected by problems with the freezing liquid

So far it has been confirmed that 136 women may have lost their chance to become biological parents with an NHS fertility clinic warning their frozen eggs and embryos may not survive the thawing process due to a fault (stock image)

Many of the women had eggs or embryos frozen at the Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Trust between September and October 2022

Dr Jennifer Hill, Medical Director, Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust said: 'We began a thorough patient review as soon as the product recall notice was issued.

'We have robust tracing processes in our laboratories and so we were able to identify that there were 29 people who had eggs or embryos frozen in the period when we used the particular product batch.

'We can confirm that 28 of those did not have the faulty fluid used to freeze their eggs or embryos.

'The remaining person was contacted at the time and did not require further actions to be taken.'

It is understood the patient didn't need the material due to a change in personal circumstances. The cases were all traced back to August.

It is also unknown if the solution at the centre of the scandal, used to preserve eggs and embryos, was sent to more UK IVF clinics but went unused.

Not every bottle in the affected batch is faulty, insiders insist.

Sarah Norcross, director of the Progress Educational Trust, a charity representing people affected by infertility, said on learning of the fault: 'It will be distressing for women with frozen eggs to learn that, due to problems outside their control, their eggs may not survive the thawing process.

'We need to understand more about what precisely has gone wrong, whether patients at other clinics are affected, and what the relevant regulators are doing about it.

'We also need reassurance, from regulators and clinics alike, that processes are in place to notify patients in a timely way when things go wrong.'

Catherine Slattery, a specialist group actions medical negligence lawyer at law firm Irwin Mitchell, said they were in contact with some affected women.

'This is a very worrying incident which could potentially have devastating consequences for women, especially those who have had to go through the physical and psychological impact of cancer treatment,' she said.

'We’ve been contacted by a number of women possibly affected and are looking into their concerns further.

'Some women are based in London and received treatment at Guy’s Hospital, while others are based elsewhere in England and Wales.'

Cancer patients who went on to have their wombs surgically removed are among the women affected at Guy's.

Treatment for some types of cancer can render women infertile, meaning they can be recommended to get their eggs frozen beforehand.

News of the blunder was only communicated to patients at Guy's over the past two weeks.

The hospital, who learned of the error in March last year, blamed the delay in communicating the issue on confusion over which specific batches were affected.

The delay between the incident occurring and women learning of the fault means some may no longer have additional eggs to freeze, effectively dashing their hopes of ever being a biological parent.

Even those who may still have the option for further IVF treatments could face vastly increased difficulty.

The odds of successful IVF rapidly diminish as women age, from 32 per cent for women under 35, to just 4 per cent for women over 44, declining by about 6 or 7 per cent for every couple of years of age.

Ms Norcross condemned the 'appalling delay' in notifying patients.

Currently, the fertility treatment has a success rate of up to 40 per cent. Around a third of IVF cycles among under-35s resulted in a live birth in 2019 in the UK. Yet this dropped to just 4 per cent in over-44s

All the women affected at Guy's had eggs or embryos frozen at the clinic in the autumn of 2022, between September and October.

The clinic, which boasts of being one of the most advanced of its kind in the country, takes on both NHS and private patients, charging the latter thousands of pounds for IVF treatment and hundreds for cryopreservation of eggs and embryos.

Patient leaflets list the cost of an IVF embryo freeze at £4,750 and an annual cryopreservation storage fee of £350.

Similar private fees are offered at Jessop Fertility, which describes itself as 'one of the leading UK hospital based fertility centres'.

READ MORE: Number of women freezing their eggs rose 54% during Covid because lockdowns sparked widespread anxiety about finding 'the one' The number of women opting to freeze their eggs soared during the Covid pandemic because lockdowns caused widespread anxiety about meeting a partner, a top fertility expert has said Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/health/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_2 - ->

A letter sent to the women at Guy's, seen by The Times, informed them that their eggs and embryos 'may not survive the thaw process' due to a manufacturing glitch with bottles of solution used to originally freeze them.

The HEFA is actively investigating the incident.

Guy’s apologised for the delay in communicating the problem and has offered the women counselling.

Guy's Assisted Conception Unit treats about 2,000 patients a year.

Women caught in the loss of the eggs and embryos say they are devastated.

One, who spoke anonymously, said: 'The doctor informed me that the eggs I had frozen are unlikely to be viable, due to a faulty freezing process. It has been devastating.

'It is traumatising for those poor women to be told their frozen eggs cannot be used.'

She called for Guy's to cover the cost of further fertility treatment.

A spokesperson for Trust said: 'We have contacted all of those affected and apologised for the delay in doing so and any distress this may have caused.

'We are supporting those who may have been impacted, including through our counselling service, and would urge anyone with concerns to speak to us directly via the dedicated phone line we have set up.'

The conception unit became aware of the problem just weeks after the regulator Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency issued an alert about problems with the freezing solution.

The HFEA recorded more than 4,200 egg storage cycles in 2021, almost double the 2,500 in 2019.

It is thought the number of women freezing their eggs surged during Covid because many feared they were running out of time to have a baby.

The pandemic brought dating to a halt for single women for months at a time, leaving some unsure when they would meet the right partner to start a family.

Egg freezing involves following the first steps of IVF, which takes two to three weeks to complete.

Women take drugs to boost their egg production and help eggs mature.

The eggs are then collected under general anaesthetic, mixed with a freezing solution and frozen.

Most patients under 38 have seven to 14 eggs collected. On average, women lose around 1,000 eggs per month.