Eco - warriors Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have jetted home to California following a Canadian send off that saw them serenaded with a rewritten version of My Way by crooner Michael Buble.

The couple were seen boarding the same Bombardier Execujet charter plane they arrived on at 8.20am on Saturday morning at Vancouver International airport.

Luggage was loaded on board at 8am and the plane took off for Santa Barbara just after 8.30am.

The duo have been on a three-day tour of Whistler and Vancouver to mark one year to go before the 2025 edition which takes place in the ski resort.

Eco - warriors Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have jetted home to California following a Canadian send off that saw them serenaded with a rewritten version of My Way by crooner Michael Bublé

The couple were seen boarding the same Bombardier Execujet charter plane they arrived on at 8.20am on Saturday morning at Vancouver International airport

The duo have been on a three-day tour of Whistler and Vancouver to mark one year to go before the 2025 edition which takes place in the ski resort

Luggage was loaded on board at 8am and the plane took off for Santa Barbara just after 8.30am

It comes amid rumors the Prince may resume royal duties.

Last night saw the couple attend the One Year to Go Dinner at the Vancouver Convention Center where Meghan, 42, stunned in an olive green one-shoulder gown by Canadian designer Greta Constantine and heels by Manolo Blahnik.

Harry dressed up in a sharp black suit and tie and smiled as he listened to Buble, 48, sing a reworked version of My Way that referenced him. Buble's version also included a nod to King Charles III's illness in the line 'our healing wishes for your dad' and described Harry as a 'visionary'.

The full lyrics ran: 'Who knew, dreams can come true, when life tells you, you're far from finished. Nothing tames, Invictus Games, you play them your way. One man, life-changing plan, he does all he can, he's a visionary. Our healing wishes for your dad. You've earned each day, the right to say, I did it my way.'

Meghan and Harry had been expected to head home to Montecito, California following three days of Invictus Games events in Whistler and Vancouver but extended their trip by a night to enjoy a party with athletes and organizers.

Although not part of the official schedule and intended to be held away from the media, the gala - which is being held at the Vancouver Convention Centre - was signposted with black and gold Invictus signs.

Meghan and Harry had been expected to head home to Montecito, California following three days of Invictus Games events in Whistler and Vancouver but extended their trip by a night to enjoy a party with athletes and organizers

Although not part of the official schedule and intended to be held away from the media, the gala - which is being held at the Vancouver Convention Centre - was signposted with black and gold Invictus signs

In his speech, Prince Harry spoke of the Invictus Games and touched on how much he was looking forward to next years event

Bublé said it was emotional for him to be there and that he loved that 'we can show Harry and Meghan how beautiful this place is'

Towards the end of the night, the crowd gave a standing ovation as Prince Harry took to the stage - who joked that he was going to start singing before welcoming Bublé to the stage.

Bublé said it was emotional for him to be there and that he loved that 'we can show Harry and Meghan how beautiful this place is'.

In his speech, Prince Harry spoke of the Invictus Games and touched on how much he was looking forward to next years event.

Prince Harry said: 'These games have been so warmly welcomed by our Four Host First Nations, who have opened their arms and land to each of us, not only tonight but in the lead up to and during the Games next year.

'This year will mark ten years of the Invictus Games. The past decade has been a testament to the power of resilience and the unbreakable spirit you all exemplify. And boy have we had fun on the way!

From left to right: Squamish Nation Councillor, Wilson Williams, Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex, Chief of the Tsleil-Waututh Nation, Jen Thomas, and Prince Harry, the Duke of Sussex exchange greetings after being given blankets during dinner in Vancouver on Friday

Prince Harry, the Duke of Sussex speaks during the "One Year to Go" Invictus Games dinner in Vancouver on Friday, Feb. 16, 2024 Invictus Gala, Vancouver

The crowd gave a standing ovation as Prince Harry took to the stage - who joked that he was going to start singing before welcoming Bublé to the stage

Prince Harry looked pensive walking down a corridor at Friday night's event. Megan smiled

Bublé went on to perform a rewritten version of Frank Sinatra's 'My Way' littered with nods to Prince Harry littered throughout

'The Invictus Games are not just a competition; they’re a way of life, a celebration of the human spirit.

'The games provide a platform for us to showcase your abilities, to inspire the world, and honor the sacrifices of those we have lost.

'It is a reminder that we are not defined by our injuries, but by our strength, our commitment, and our ability to overcome adversity.

'Invictus is not necessarily about winning a medal, but about the bonds that are built between nations; about the shared journey of recovery that competitors and their families are a part of.

'As we continue to prepare for next year, let us remember the words of William Ernest Henley, the poet whose work serves as the namesake for The Invictus Games.

'"I am the master of my fate; I am the captain of my soul." Let us embrace these words, and let us continue to inspire each other, and the world, with courage, with leadership, and with fortitude.'

He also made a reference to truth and reconciliation in a possible nod to his own family, saying: ‘Our collective journey through truth and reconciliation is an important one for all of us, and as we come here to learn, my hope is we can depart and return as friends.'

Roughly 200 people were in attendance, which began with the Duke and Duchess being led in by representatives from the Tsleil-Waututh Nation who sang and drummed in traditional regalia.