Jennifer Metcalfe has revealed she has found happiness again with her new mystery man after the pair enjoyed a Valentine's Day date earlier this week.

The Hollyoaks actress, 40, has been single since her split from ex Greg Lake in 2020.

The couple spent eight years together and share son Daye, six, however now the star is moving on and admitted her new fling makes her 'feel happy'.

Speaking to The Sun on Sunday, Jennifer admitted: 'I have recently been spending time with someone and he makes me feel happy.

'I look forward to seeing him and our time together is always lovely.'

Jennifer Metcalfe, 40, has revealed she has found happiness with mystery new man and admits the secret to her incredible physique in a recent interview with The Sun on Sunday (pictured with her new flame back in December)

Speaking to The Sun on Sunday, Jennifer admitted: 'I have recently been spending time with someone and he makes me feel happy'

The pair were first spotted together on a stroll in Cheshire back in December, but Jennifer is yet to publicly name her new flame.

The star also admitted that prior to meeting her new man she gave celebrity dating app Raya a try, but never actually went on a date.

She explained: 'I tried that celebrity dating app Raya but I never went on a date. I prefer to meet someone and get an idea of them in real life before dating, so that app got deleted quickly.'

Jennifer added that her work, playing Mercedes in the Cheshire soap, and being a mum to Daye takes up so much of her time that she didn't have the capacity to meet up with strangers off the app.

The star also revealed how she stays in such good shape and is feeling fitter than ever at 40.

Revealing her secret, Jennifer explained she has been consistently working out three or four times a week for the last year and prioritises strength training.

While she admitted she is happy with how her body looks, she said the main benefit for her is her actual health and having more energy.

Jennifer revealed in 2022 she was 'totally single' after breaking up with Oldham Athletic player Chris Eagles.

Jennifer also confessed the secret to her fabulous physique as she explained she has been consistently working out three or four times a week for the last year

Jennifer and Greg split in 2020 after eight years together (pictured that year with their son Daye, six)

The split with Greg was amicable and the two continue to co-parent Daye

Admitting that she'd love to have more children, Jennifer told The Sun: 'As long as my parts are still working, I wouldn't rule it out at 50.

'I've actually always been very keen on adoption and I'd do that as a single parent.'

Daye lives with Jennifer near Manchester, but sees his dad, who is based in Newcastle, every other weekend and during school holidays.

Speaking of her romantic relationship with Greg ending, the soap star insisted she never wants them to feel 'split up,' because of their son.

She explained: 'There was no bad energy [at the end] and I don't even like using the phrase 'split up'. We'll never be split, we're a family and always will be.

'I never want us to feel split, for Daye, and I'll do everything I can to make sure of that. It was a case of: 'This is us now and how do we make this gear change and not have Daye feel it?'.'

Jennifer confirmed on Instagram back in 2020 that the couple had secretly broken up a couple of months earlier.