Football fans were left in stitches after witnessing Cristiano Ronaldo's hat-trick of unsuccessful skill attempts against Al-Hilal.

The Portuguese superstar had an eventful night on Wednesday as his Al-Nassr side suffered a 2-0 defeat in the Riyadh Season Cup final at the Kingdom Arena.

Goals from Sergej Milinkovic-Savic and Salem Aldawsari helped the Saudi Pro League leaders to a comfortable win. And one of the instances fans spotted on an action-packed evening was Ronaldo's skill - or lack of - in the opening minutes of the fixture.

The 39-year-old received the ball on the left flank and attempted to drive past his Portugal teammate Ruben Neves and towards goals. However, Ronaldo's historic stepover abilities appear to have evaded him, as ended up losing control, allowing the former Wolves midfielder to clear.

Fans were quick to comment on what they had just seen, with several more than a little amused by the failed attempt.

Cristiano Ronaldo was mocked on social media after he failed attempt at a skill on Wednesday night

Fans were quick to comment on social media, with many in stitches after witnessing the 39-year-old attempt

Your browser does not support iframes.

'This is so funny bro,' one fan wrote on X, formerly Twitter. 'Ronaldo trying to prove hazard wrong.

A second wrote: 'What a skill that was.' A third commented: 'Useless stepovers that lead to nothing lmao!'

'Bro thought he's him,' said a fourth. While another fan simply replied to the clip with a series of crying laughter emoji.

Unfortunately for the former Manchester United striker, that was not the only instance in which his previously quick feet failed him.

With his side 1-0 down Ronaldo tried a risky back-heeled pass that was intercepted and nearly led to a second Al-Hilal goal.

Then, late on he tried to wrong foot former Chelsea defender Kalidou Koulibaly with a flip-flap. But again, the effort was painfully poor.

It turned out to be a frustrating night all round for the five-time Ballon d'Or winner, who was at the centre of a litany of incidents.

Ronaldo is showing off his dribbling skills despite Al Nassr is losing to Al Hilal now I know why Trey picked him as his Goat pic.twitter.com/zNRlLI3C9L — Festy 💙❤️ F.C.B (@festusErhun) February 8, 2024

One viewer simply replied to the post of the play with a series of crying laughing emojis

The 39-year-old was unable to ignore fans in the stadium chanting 'Messi, Messi, Messi'. Footage on social media appeared to show the former Real Madrid striker responding with some annoyance.

The Al-Nassr skipper's anger boiled over at another point of the game, as he received a yellow card from referee Tori Penso for smashing the ball into the stands.

Furthermore, footage that appeared on X, formerly known as Twitter, showed the forward walking down the tunnel at the Kingdom Arena, before a fan threw an Al-Hilal shirt at him.

As he approached the tunnel, he picked the shirt up before seemingly rubbing it against his crotch and throwing it back towards the crowd in frustration.