Whether visiting friends and family or venturing abroad for a much-needed holiday, over the next few months many of us will be packing up and hitting the road, so to speak. And no matter if you’re travelling via plane, train, car or boat, you’ll want to keep essentials such as your passport and credit card, safe.

And the best way to manage this? By investing in an RFID-protected travel wallet or organiser.

Read on to discover the most stylish ones on the market, designed to provide you peace of mind whilst travelling.

RFID-protected travel wallets to shop now

Best travel wallet overall Bellroy Travel Folio Jump to details £145 at Bellroy Best travel wallet for her Sara Miller Orchard Travel Document Wallet Jump to details £28 at Amazon Best travel wallet for him Derrick RFID International Combination Jump to details £75 at Fossil Best small travel wallet Lifeventure RFID Travel Wallet Jump to details £19.99 at Lifeventure Show 3 more

What is RFID?

Before jumping into a lowdown on the best RFID travel wallets, here’s everything you need to know about RFID and what it actually is.

RFID is short for radio frequency identification.

Modern credit and debit cards have an RFID chip that uses electromagnetic or electrostatic coupling to allow you to pay for goods by simply tapping your card on a reader — instead of inserting or swiping it.

Low-intensity radio waves carry signals between your card and the reader, allowing for super fast and convenient transactions. And while the world revels in the time being saved by such innovation, the use of RFID comes with security risks.

Photo: Pexels

The dangers of RFID

These days, thieves may use an RFID skimmer (which looks like a small remote) that activates the card's RFID tag and transmits the data directly to the skimmer device. All a thief must do is get close enough to you to launch the scan and steal your information.

Et voila. They’ll have your card details.

How to protect your card

Luckily, along with developing technology, special RFID-blocking wallets have also come onto the market and are designed to protect your personal information from thieves. These wallets have a protective metal layer built into their interior, preventing your card’s RFID signals from transmitting, ultimately keeping your details safe. You don’t have to worry about standing too close to a card reader or fear thieves obtaining your personal information.

Whilst handy for everyday usage, these RFID-protected wallets have become increasingly popular for those undertaking travel — as they keep your passport details secure, also.

The top 7 travel wallets with RFID protection

Ready to increase your level of travel protection with an RFID travel wallet? Check out these 7 hand-selected travel wallets with trusty RFID protection built in.

Best travel wallet overall Photo: Bellroy Bellroy Travel Folio £145 £145 at Bellroy Specifications Size: 17.5 x 11.5 x 2 cm

Weight: 161 g Pros & Cons Made from sustainable, eco-friendly leather and fabric

Available in four colours

Zippered exterior keeps your documents and cards secure

Lets you keep cash hidden from view

Features a three-year warranty Pricey

Zipper can jam

Takes time to open and access your cards

This trendy travel wallet effortlessly holds two passports and up to eight cards, along with boarding passes and cash, whilst a handy divider allows you to keep everything separate. Crafted from premium leather, everything about this wallet oozes style and convenience: keep your cash completely hidden from sight, stack your cards in quick-access slots, whip your pen out with ease thanks to its designated internal holder, and tuck your local SIM card into a special slot, perfect for travels abroad..

And that’s all before we get to the main feature: built-in RFID protection to keep your cards and documents secure and safe.

What’s more, if you’re an eco-conscious traveller, you’ll be happy to learn that this travel document wallet is made from environmentally certified leather. Even the interior woven fabrics are sustainably produced while still providing optimum durability.

This RFID wallet in the Sara Miller Orchard line features gold foil detailing that has been fashioned into a delicate and intricate floral print. Offering three tabs, one for your passport, one for tickets and one for currency, there is a designated space for all your travel essentials, ensuring everything is within easy reach and can be accessed smoothly.

Not just ideal for time in transit, this travel wallet doubles as a clutch on nights out, and features a handy zippered section, perfect for change and other small items — like your favourite lippy.

Best travel wallet for him Photo: Fossil Derrick RFID International Combination £75 £75 at Fossil Specifications Size: 10 x 2.5 x 13 Pros & Cons Small, foldable design

Made from REPREVE eco-friendly fabric

Available in two colours No zipper to secure items

Too small for a passport

If you’re environmentally conscious, or shopping for the perfect gift for the climate-savvy male traveller in your life, then the Derrick RFID International Combination is a winner. Why? The interior is made from 100% recycled materials, thanks to the conversion of used water bottles into resin, that’s then further texturised to form a soft yarn.

The process involved in making the REPREVE recycled polyester fabric lowers energy consumption by 45%, reduces water use by 20%, and drops greenhouse emissions by 30% — compared to the average leather wallet. Pretty impressive, huh?

Not to mention it will keep your valuables safe from would-be thieves and comes in a rugged, worn aesthetic to boot.

Best small travel wallet Photo: Lifeventure Lifeventure RFID Travel Wallet £19.99 £19.99 at Lifeventure Specifications Size: 15 x 11 x 2 cm

Weight: 117 g Pros & Cons Numerous compartments

Zippered closure for cash and change

Nickel and copper are woven into wallet’s fibres

Available in five colours A little bulky when each compartment is filled

If overfilled, zipper may be compromised

If you’re on the hunt for a small travel wallet with sufficient space to hold your travel documents, then you’ll fall in love with this mini by Lifeventure. Featuring seven card pockets, a section for your mobile phone, one for your passport and three slip pockets with a pen loop and a zippered interior compartment — this RFID travel wallet accommodates all the essentials you may need within its securely zippered interior.

The travel wallet effectively shields your cards from RFID readers with its nickel and copper-coated fabric. Many RFID wallets only have interior plates to keep your personal information safe, but the Lifeventure RFID travel wallet provides all-around protection, due to the metal being built into the wallet's fibres.

Best minimalist travel wallet Photo: Amazon Minimalist Card Wallet Holder You save £0.69 (5.75%) £11.30 £11.99 £11.30 at Amazon Specifications Size: 8.64 x 5.59 x 0.76 cm

Weight: 100 g Pros & Cons Made from durable carbon fibre and stainless steel

Comes with a tin gift box

Holds 15 cards Money clip design may allow cards to slip out

Too small for larger travel documents (like passports)

If you are seeking a compact top-technology RFID travel wallet, then the Minimalist Card Wallet Holder could be the one for you. With an ultra-slim design, this wallet holds up to nine folded bills and 15 cards securely.

Featuring elastic webbing fashioned from 304 stainless steel, this card holder blocks the transmission of RFID signals with ease and is slim enough to slide into your jeans or jacket pocket whilst on the move.

Best designer travel wallet Photo: Ted Baker Ted Baker Travelz Passport Holder £75 £75 at Ted Baker Specifications Size: 1 x 23 x 13 cm Pros & Cons Easy carry design

Large enough to hold a passport

Several organisational compartments

Available in three colours Flap over design may pop open when full

We love this sweet and secure women’s travel wallet from Ted Baker. Designed to keep personal items, credit cards and passports safe, this wallet features multiple compartments and card slots to hold everything in one organised yet convenient location.

While our favourite is this soft blush faux croc fabric, the wallet is also available in black.

Best practical wallet Photo: Lifeventure Lifeventure RFID Travel Neck Pouch You save £6.00 (33.35%) £11.99 £17.99 £11.99 at Lifeventure Specifications Size: 15.5 x 12 x 2 cm

Weight: 106 g Pros & Cons Can be warm around the neck or on the belt

Ideal for men or women

Copper-coated polyester fabric provides optimum RFID protection. Not the most stylish

Passport sits on outside pocket

This neck pouch is compact and convenient, featuring copper-coated polyester with RFID capabilities to keep all your bank cards safe. There is an adjustable neck strap to wear the travel wallet around your neck or you can attach it to your belt via an included belt loop.

The travel wallet organiser has two card pockets, a pen loop, four stash pockets, and a key fob. It’s also fashioned from a tough water-resistant fabric to keep all your documents safe from weather extremes and spills — perfect for the adventurous travellers amongst us.

Do RFID wallets work?

Yes, thanks to the incorporation of special metal plates and protection, RFID travel wallets can effectively block your credit card’s RFID from thieves trying to steal your information.

Why do you need an RFID wallet when travelling?

Unfortunately, airports, bus stations, train terminals and tourist hotspots are prime places for thieves to conduct their business. Armed with an RFID skimmer or reader, thieves may be able to gain access to your credit card information simply by standing close to you.

An RFID travel wallet shields your credit cards to keep your details and identity safe.

Our verdict

Anyone planning a trip or holiday should invest in an RFID travel wallet. Unfortunately, they’re not a luxury but a necessity.

Identity theft is sure to destroy any holiday, and the last thing you need on your plate is to be cancelling credit cards and contacting your financial institutions when you are supposed to be enjoying your vacation or getaway.

But, thanks to an RFID-protected wallet, your information will remain safe and you’ll have total peace of mind whilst travelling.

So, while each of these seven RFID travel wallets is stylish and secure, three stand out as leaders on our list.

We like the Bellroy Travel Folio due to its outstanding eco-friendly design, luxurious appearance and versatility in colour range, making it perfect for both a travel wallet for men and women or as a ladies' nighttime clutch.

Our second choice is the Sara Miller Orchard Travel Document Wallet due to its feminine print and easy-to-carry design, while our top choice for men is the Derrick RFID International Combination. It is available in two different leather shades and will slip into a man’s pocket easily.

Prices updated on 24/01/2023. We are not responsible for any changes to the prices mentioned above.