Inflation held at 4 per cent in the 12 months to January at the same level as the 12 months to December.

It came as a pleasant surprise as economists forecast inflation to rise by 0.2 per cent to 4.2 per cent in the 12 months to January.

The Bank of England's battle to bring inflation to 2 per cent is far from over, as inflation sticking at twice this level shows. It serves as a reminder that the road to bringing inflation down will be long.

The fall in inflation to 4.6 per cent in October 2023 meant the Government had already hit its target of halving inflation to 5 per cent by the end of the year, but core inflation (stripping out energy, food, alcohol and tobacco) has held steady at 5.1 per cent.

The biggest drivers of the monthly change in CPI came from from housing and household services (principally higher gas and electricity charges), while the largest downward contribution came from furniture and household goods, and food and non-alcoholic beverages.

An welcome surprise: January's CPI inflation reading stuck at 4% instead of the predicted 0.2% rise

Inflation looked like it was on a downward trajectory - prior to October's shock fall, consumer prices had risen more than three times the Bank of England's long-term target of 2 per cent over the past year.

There are now 953 savings accounts which beat the rate of CPI inflation, figures from rates monitor Moneyfacts Compare show.

This includes 102 easy-access accounts, 119 notice accounts, 81 variable rate Isas, 193 fixed-rate Isas and 458 fixed-rate bonds.

The best easy-access account outpaces inflation by 1.15 percentage points, though this was 1.2 percentage points last month.

While the gap between the best fixed-rate deal and the rate of inflation has also narrowed to 1.21 percentage points, this is largely because one-year fixed rate accounts are dropping.

Current CPI measure: 4.00%

Best buy easy-access: 5.15% - Gap: 1.15 percentage points (up on last month)

Best buy one-year fix: 5.21% - Gap: 1.21 percentage points (up on last month)

Keeping an eye on inflation is key to knowing whether or not your savings are being eaten away by inflation

Savers won't see their cash pots eroded as much with inflation at this level, as at least 953 standard accounts now bridge the gap between CPI inflation.

Each month, we search for the best savings accounts to use to protect the value of your money in real terms.

In November, when inflation fell to 3.9 per cent, we found 967 standard accounts that bridged the gap between CPI inflation.

For more than two years before the surprise fall in inflation in October 2023, we could not find not one single account that managed to match or better inflation.

At the moment, the best easy-access deal pays 5.15 per cent interest and the best fixed-rate deal pays 5.21 per cent - both beating the current inflation measure.

Some regular savers do pay a headline rate of up to 8 per cent - but we don't count these. That's because interest is calculated on the growing balance and means they don't technically beat inflation.

For example, if you stick in the maximum £200 allowed monthly into Nationwide and its 8 per cent regular saver, you'd end up with £104 interest, which is the equivalent of 4.33 per cent of the balance.

Inflation: a brief explanation

Inflation is the rate at which costs rise. For example, if the average pint of milk rises from 60p to 66p over 12 months, then milk inflation is 10 per cent.

The consumer prices index measures the average change in prices of roughly 730 core goods and services over time, including transport, food, and medical care.

To do this, every month, a team of roughly 300 analysts visit 20,000 shops in 141 different locations recording around 180,000 price quotes in the process.

CPI replaced the old retail prices index measure of inflation as a national statistic at the turn of the millennium, but RPI is still used for some official calculations and some people prefer it as a long-run measure. You can check how prices have changed over the years with our inflation calculator.

The truth is, there's no such thing as a single rate of inflation. Everyone will have their own because people buy different goods and services from an array of shops and sellers.

The changing price of dog food, for example, is not going to be relevant to someone who does not have a four-legged companion.

Instead, Britain's national statisticians aim to create a representative basket of goods broadly reflective of the nation's shopping habits.

This basket, which is used to calculate what we know as 'the rate of inflation', or the Consumer Prices Index, is updated once a year to reflect changing tastes.

For example, at the start of 2023, 19 items were added to the Consumer Prices Index and 15 items were removed.

Additions to the basket for 2023 included video doorbells, home security cameras, soundbars, electric bikes, wraps, tortillas, and frozen berries.

Removals from the basket included cooking apples, home-killed shoulder of lamb, DVDs, alcopops, and bottles of drink bought from vending machines.

Inflation vs the base rate and savings

The Bank of England uses the rate of inflation to determine whether to raise or lower its base rate in the hope people will borrow or spend more. In December it paused the base rate at 5.25 per cent, for the third month in a row.

While the base rate doesn't quite determine mortgage or savings rates quite as often as it used to, inflation is very important for everyday savers too.

After all, if the rate paid on savings is below the CPI, savers are almost certain to be losing money in 'real' terms.

To make matters worse, many savers are failing to make the best of a bad situation by leaving their savings languishing in accounts paying next to nothing.

Getting there: 689 general savings accounts now outpace CPI inflaion

Some easy-access accounts with big banks still pay around 2 per cent or less, whilst plenty of people keep large amounts of money in their bank account, often earning absolutely nothing.

With the current rate of CPI now at 4 per cent, savers with cash in accounts such as these will be, in essence, shredding money.

As an example, let's say the rate of inflation comes in at 4 per cent this time next year. That means what costs someone £1,000 today will typically cost them £1,040 this time next year.

If they have £1,000 in a bank account today paying no interest, they'll effectively be losing £40.

By stashing £1,000 in the best paying easy-access deal paying 5.15 per cent, they will be £11.5 better off. Albeit, if all things remain the same.

Don't leave your cash in the bank: £1,000 cash would drop in value to £858.73 after five years, with inflation at 3%. With inflation at 10%, it would only be worth £590.40 after five years

That's why it's important to ensure savers are earning the best rate on their cash savings that they can be.

The Bank of England expects inflation to continue to fall throughout next year.

Each month This is Money publishes figures from the analysts Moneyfacts Compare which reveal how many current savings deals beat the latest available inflation reading from the Office for National Statistics.

Unsurprisingly, as inflation has soared the answer for some time now has been 'none' until last months.

Coupled with our independent best buy savings tables, this should give savers all the information they need to find the hardest-working home for their cash.

How many savings accounts beat the latest inflation reading? Account Number of inflation-beating deals this month Number of inflation-beating deals last month Current accounts 1 1 Easy-access accounts 102 101 Notice accounts 119 124 Variable rate Isas 81 72 Fixed-rate Isas 193 207 Fixed-rate bonds 458 463 Total 953 967 Source: Moneyfacts Compare (figures correct as of 14 February2023)

Savings accounts that currently beat inflation: 953

It should come a relief to savers that there are now 953 general savings deals that currently beat inflation. Last month there were 967 accounts that could beat inflation.

For two years, between April 2021 and October 2023, there were zero savings accounts which actually beat the rate of inflation. So 953 accounds is a massive improvement.

The most important thing for savers to do at the moment is to find the best savings rate they can, and if that means switching they should be prepared to do this.

The closer your savings rate is to the rate of inflation, the less value your cash will lose over time. That's why you should ensure that your money is getting the best interest rate possible.

In recent months, savers have faced a dilemma over whether to fix or wait for better rates to come along.

Heading down? The Bank of England is forecasting for inflation to fall sharply this year

The advice to savers has been to keep on top of the changing market if they want to secure a competitive deal.

Rachel Springall, Finance Expert at Moneyfactscompare.co.uk, says: 'Savers who prefer to lock their cash into a fixed rate bond or Isa for a guaranteed return will find more than half of the savings market can beat inflation, but they may be disappointed to see the top fixed rates have tumbled over the past month.

'Providers have been particularly active in this space due to the ongoing uncertainties surrounding future rate expectations. Challenger banks which sit towards the top end of the fixed bond market have had to adjust their market positions and will likely keep a close eye on their margins compared to their peers in the coming weeks.'

'Those savers who prefer to have flexibility with their savings pots will find variable rates on the top easy access, notice accounts and Isa equivalents have been resilient. Indeed, it has been six months since the market last felt a base rate rise, and many providers have likely caught up with these rises by now, so any future improvements to the top rates will be down to competition.

'We would expect providers to improve their Isa rates this time of year, so savers need to consider using their Isa allowance as the new tax year in April fast approaches.'

'Inflation is predicted to come down to around 2.7 per cent by the end of 2024 and, based on today’s top rates, savers would be able to make a return on their cash on most savings accounts on the market should interest rates hover around current levels.

'Savers who have not reviewed their existing rate would be wise to do, as well as taking time to compare the latest deals on the market and sign up to rate alerts for any table-topping rates.'

Caught in a trap: Keeping an eye on inflation is key to knowing how much your savings are being eaten away

This is Money says: Moving your money to a new savings account is much easier than many people think.

It can all be done online and setting up an account can often take less than 10 minutes.

So our advice is simple. Don't be loyal to your bank or savings provider. Be proactive and hunt for the best rates using our independent best buy tables.

When it comes to choosing an account. It's always worth keeping some money in an easy-access account to fall back on as and when required.

Most personal finance experts believe that this should cover between three to six months worth of basic living expenses.

The best easy-access deals, without any restrictions, pay north of 5 per cent. If you're getting anything less than this at the moment, then switch to a provider that will give you these rates.

Those with extra cash which they won't immediately need over the next year or two, should consider fixed-rate savings.

James Hyde says: 'It remains a worthwhile exercise to consider splitting investments across easy-access accounts and fixed bonds. There are also notice accounts to consider, though the best 30-day notice rates currently sit below the best easy access rates.'

Longer-term fixed rate deals have peaked according to experts and now that inflation has dropped to 4 per cent, some top fixed bond rates have reduced Moneyfacts Compare warns. So savers wishing to secure one need to move quickly.

There are now now no providers offering a fixed rate account that pays over 6 per cent interest.

The best paying one-year fix pays 5.21 per cent and is offered by SmartSave, while the best two-year fix from DF Capital pays 4.96 per cent.

Savers should also consider using a cash Isa to protect the interest they earn from being taxed.

OakNorth Bank is offering a one-year fix paying 5 per cent, and Close Brothers Savings has a two-year deal paying 4.65 per cent.

Savers can also opt for Zopa Bank's easy-access account paying 5.08 per cent.

- Check out the best cash Isa rates here.

Rainy day fund: Most personal finance experts believe that this should cover between three to six months worth of basic living expenses

For those with spare cash who won't need it for five years or more, investing it in the stock market may be the most sensible option to counter the inflation impact.

Money invested has outperformed money saved in four of the last 20 years, according to research by Janus Henderson.

A bad year might put some nervous investors off, but ultimately it won't mask the fact that investing outperforms cash over the long term.

- Read our guide on how to choose the best (and cheapest) stocks and shares Isa and the right DIY investing platform.

Inflation watch: what's behind it?

Inflation has proved stickier over the last two years than the Bank of England and indeed many analysts were expecting in recent months.

Core CPI inflation (stripping out energy, food, alcohol and tobacco) remained at 5.1 per cent, the same level as December.

Food prices dropped back very slightly from 8 per cent to 7 per cent, as food manufacturers are paying less for food than a year ago which is starting to pass through to consumers.

This was the tenth consecutive month of falls in food inflation, down from 8 per cent in December and a record high of 19.2 per cent in March 2023

In the vast majority of cases, it's not that things are getting any cheaper, it's just that prices are rising more slowly.

The £94 hike in the energy price cap in January means that electricity was up 4 per cent on the month and gas up 6.8 per cent.

Petrol prices eased a little – but not as much as they did the same time last year – putting upwards pressure on inflation despite the fact diesel prices are 13.8 per cent lower than this time last year and petrol down 6.4 per cent.

Top of the market: Savers should be looking at best buy tables to locate the best rates on the market.

Mark Hicks, head of active savings at Hargreaves Lansdown, says: 'With the average easy access rate offering 3.17 per cent, and inflation at 4 per cent in January, an awful lot of people will be back to seeing inflation outpace out savings. But it doesn’t have to be this way.

'You don't have to settle for an average savings rate when there are still inflation-busting deals over 5 per cent on the table, so it’s vital to shop around for a better deal from a newer online bank, building society or savings platform.

'It’s also worth bearing in mind that savings rates are forward-looking, and inflation is expected to fall over the coming 12 months, which means your savings could stay well ahead, and your emergency savings safety net can remain well padded in case of tougher times.'