Kandi Burruss looked stunning on the green carpet at the People's Choice Awards.

The reality star, 47, who spent Valentine's Day watching the stage musical The Wiz, glowed in a gold sequined mini- dress with long sleeves trimmed with feathers.

The influencer showcased her toned legs in a pair of gold high heel sandals with a wrap around strap.

She styled her long, dark hair into a high ponytail and wore natural looking, camera-ready makeup with a nude lip. The influencer accessorized with dangling star earrings.

Kandi has been nominated in the Reality TV Star Of The Year category.

Kandi Burruss, 47, looked stunning on the green carpet at the People's Choice Awards Sunday in Los Angeles

She is competing for the honor against Ariana Madix of Vanderpump Rules, Chrishell Stause from Selling Sunset, Real Housewives of Beverly Hills stars Garcelle Beauvais and Kyle Richards.

Khloé Kardashian and older sister Kim from The Kardashians are also in the running as is Mike “The Situation” Sorrentino from Jersey Shore Family Vacation.

Kandi shared some video from her ride to the awards on social media.

When asked by her friend who is going as her plus-one to the event if she had prepared a speech, Kandi said she had not, 'cause for the last few years one of the Kardashians have won.'

This is not hate or no shade,' she explained,' but unless I change my name to "Kim Kardashian," I didn't see a need to write a speech.

Season 14 on Real Housewives of Atlanta was Kandi's last.

After making the surprise announcement at the Grammys, the entrepreneur said the reason was simple - she wanted to spend more time with her family.

'My mom had to get cataract surgery,' she told the YouTube program Speak On It.

The reality star glowed in a gold sequined mini- dress with long sleeves trimmed with feathers. The influencer showcased her toned legs in a pair of gold high heel sandals with a wrap around strap

Kandi styled her long, dark hair into a high ponytail and wore natural looking, camera-ready makeup with a nude lip. The influencer accessorized with dangling star earrings

People's Choice Awards 2024 Winners At a Glance

Music Male artist of the year: Jung Kook (WINNER) Female artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Male country artist of the year: Jelly Roll (WINNER) Female country artist of the year: Lainey Wilson (WINNER) Male Latin artist of the year: Bad Bunny (WINNER) Female Latin artist of the year: Shakira (WINNER) Pop artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Hip-hop artist of the year: Nicki Minaj (WINNER) R&B artist of the year: Beyoncé (WINNER) New artist of the year: Ice Spice (WINNER) Group/duo of the year: Stray Kids (WINNER) Song of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, “Vampire” (WINNER) Album of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, Guts (WINNER) Collaboration song of the year: Nicki Minaj & Ice Spice with Aqua, “Barbie World” (WINNER) Concert tour of the year: Taylor Swift, The Eras Tour (WINNER) Movies Movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Action movie of the year: The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Drama movie of the year: Oppenheimer (WINNER) Male movie star of the year: Ryan Gosling, Barbie (WINNER) Female movie star of the year: Margot Robbie, Barbie (WINNER) Margot Robbie is a leading contender for female movie star of the year for Barbie Action movie star of the year: Rachel Zegler, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie star of the year: Jennifer Lawrence, No Hard Feelings (WINNER) Drama movie star of the year Jenna Ortega, Scream VI (WINNER) Movie performance of the year America Ferrera, Barbie (WINNER) TV Show of the year: Grey’s Anatomy (WINNER) Comedy show of the year: Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Drama show of the year: The Last of Us (WINNER) Sci-fi/fantasy show of the year: Loki (WINNER) Reality show of the year: The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition show of the year: The Voice (WINNER) Bingeworthy show of the year: The Summer I Turned Pretty (WINNER) Male TV star of the year: Pedro Pascal, The Last of Us (WINNER) Female TV star of the year: Selena Gomez, Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Comedy TV star of the year: Jeremy Allen White, The Bear (WINNER) Drama TV star of the year: Jennifer Aniston, The Morning Show (WINNER) TV performance of the year Billie Eilish, Swarm (WINNER) Reality TV star of the year Khloé Kardashian, The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition contestant of the year Ariana Madix, Dancing with the Stars (WINNER) Daytime talk show of the year The Kelly Clarkson Show (WINNER) Nighttime talk show of the year The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon (WINNER) Host of the year Jimmy Fallon, That’s My Jam (WINNER) Pop Culture Social celebrity of the year Taylor Swift (WINNER) Comedy act of the year Chris Rock, Selective Outrage (WINNER) Athlete of the year Travis Kelce (WINNER) Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

'I was able to take her and get her eyes fixed and be there for [her] when she came out of there," she explained.

While she was on break from the series, Kandi explained she really enjoyed taking care of her children while waiting for RHOA producers to figure out how they wanted to proceed.

'Like I was doing real mommy duties, and I was loving it,' she said. 'I was like, now, I know this ain't got nothing to do with making money, but I probably wouldn't have been able to be there for every one of those things had I not had the little extra time on my hands.'

Kandi, who is starring alongside Snoop Dogg in the comedy The Underdoggs said she wants to look at other projects, but is open to returning to the franchise.