Rosamund Pike joined Margot Robbie and Phoebe Dynevor leading the stars at the EE BAFTA Film Awards' nominees party at London's National Gallery on Saturday, 24-hours ahead of the much-anticipated ceremony.

Saltburn's Rosamund, 45, was the epitome of glamour as she hit the red carpet in a dusty pink semi-sheer floral frock which teased a glimpse of her lingerie beneath.

The actress completed the look with dramatic black leather opera gloves as well as a matching belt which he used to cinch her tiny waist.

Rosamund, who's tipped to take hope the Best Actress BAFTA on Sunday, posed up a storm and added extra height to her frame with a pair of black lace heels.

Meanwhile Margot, 33, put on a very leggy display in a chic black mini dress which she wore beneath a black trench coat.

Rosamund Pike (L) joined Margot Robbie (C) and Phoebe Dynevor (R) leading the stars at the EE BAFTA Film Awards' nominees party at London's National Gallery on Saturday

Saltburn's Rosamund, 45, was the epitome of glamour as she hit the red carpet in a dusty pink semi-sheer floral frock which teased a glimpse of her lingerie beneath

The Barbie star flaunted her toned legs in the look and slipped her feet into a pair of peep-toed heels while toting her essentials for the evening in mini Chanel bag.

Elsewhere Phoebe, 28, who's nominated for the Rising Star Award, also opted for a glamorous black mini dress which boasted a gold bejewelled neckline which dazzled under the lights.

Slipping her pins into dark tights she carried the dress' sparkles into her accessories with a pair of large statement making earrings.

The attendees braved the downpour and were provided umbrellas as they made their way from their chauffeur driven cars into the iconic London building.

Oppenheimer looks set to sweep the board at the 2024 EE BAFTA Film Awards after receiving 13 nominations.

Christopher Nolan's epic biopic about atomic bomb creator J Robert Oppenheimer dominated the main categories when nominations were announced on Thursday, with nods for Best Film and for Nolan in Best Director.

In comparison, Oppenheimer's box office rival Barbie received just five nominations and was notably snubbed in the Best Film category.

Cillian Murphy, 47, received his first ever BAFTA nomination for his portrayal of titular character Oppenheimer and will go head-to-head with fellow Irishman Barry Keoghan, 31, for Saltburn in the Best Actor category.

The actress completed the look with dramatic black leather opera gloves as well as a matching belt which he used to cinch her tiny waist

Rosamund, who's tipped to take hope the Best Actress BAFTA on Sunday, posed up a storm and added extra height to her frame with a pair of black lace heels

The beauty accented her gorgeous features with make-up and swept back her blonde locks into a bun

She forwent a necklace and opted instead for a pair of chandelier diamond earrings

Meanwhile Margot, 33, put on a very leggy display in a chic black mini dress which she wore beneath a black trench coat

Her sequinned frock featured an eye-catching patchwork neckline

The Barbie actress made a rare red carpet appearance with husband Tom Ackerley, also 33,

The couple, who wed in 2106, put on a loved up display as they walked the red carpet

Elsewhere Phoebe, 28, who's nominated for the Rising Star Award, also opted for a glamorous black mini dress which boasted a gold bejewelled neckline which dazzled under the lights

Slipping her pins into dark tights she carried the dress' sparkles into her accessories with a pair of large statement making earrings

The attendees braved the downpour and were provided umbrellas as they made their way from their chauffeur driven cars into the iconic London building

Despite the rain Rosamund was all smiles and refused to let the weather dampen her evening

Margot also flashed a huge smile as she battled through the elements

Once inside Rosamund (L) posed with Saltburn co-star Carey Mulligan (R) who opted for an all black ensemble

During the event they had the opportunity to enjoy the art that decorated the walls

(L-R) Marcum Mumford, Rosamund Pike, Carey Mulligan and Paul Mescal

Oppenheimer could see Nolan pick up his first ever Director BAFTA.

He faces competition from All Of Us Strangers director Andrew Haigh, Anatomy Of A Fall's Justine Triet, The Holdovers' Alexander Payne, Maestro's Cooper and Jonathan Glazer for The Zone Of Interest.

Notably absent from the category is Barbie's director Greta Gerwig, while the movie - which was the highest-grossing film of 2023 - was also snubbed for Best Film.

Under the new rules, the director longlist had equal numbers of male and female filmmakers, but there is only one woman among the six best-director nominees, Triet.

Gerwig is, however, recognised in the Original Screenplay category alongside her husband and co-writer Noah Baumbach.

Barbie star Margot Robbie is up for Best Actress and will compete in a category that notably excludes Killers of the Flower Moon's Lily Gladstone, despite her awards season success so far. The Scorsese epic received nine nods in total.

The remaining Best Actress nominees are against Poor Things' Emma Stone, Maestro's Carey Mulligan, Anatomy Of A Fall's Sandra Huller, The Colour Purple's Fantasia Barrino and Rye Lane's Vivian Oparah.

Paul Mescal cut a suave figure in a black suit with beaded embellishments

The Irish actor appeared in great spirts as he playfully posed on the red carpet ahead of the event

Saltburn director Emerald Fennell showcased her chic sense of style in a skimpy navy bralette and high-waited sequinned skirt

She accessorised her stylish ensemble with a huge pearl and diamond necklace

Best Actor nominee Paul Giamatti attended with actress girlfriend Clara Wong

Paul's The Holdovers co-star and fellow nominee Da'Vine Joy Randolph stunned in a velvet gown

Saltburn star Richard E. Grant was as dapper as ever in a three-piece suit

The actor hosted the award show last year but has now handed the reigns to Doctor Who's David Tennant

It was previously announced that the BAFTA Fellowship, the film academy's highest honour, will be presented to actress Samantha Morton (pictured)

Clara Amfo put on a very busty display in a plunging sequinned dress

Ed Westwick was joined by girlfriend Amy Jackson

Amy flashed her toned abs a skimpy tweed ensemble

(L-R) Fantasia Barrino, Mia McKenna-Bruce, Savanah Leaf

Hannah Dodd posed up a storm on the red carpet

Tom Rhys Harries rocked a silky shirt and trousers complete with Prada loafers

German actress Huller is also nominated in a second category, and will battle it out for Supporting Actress for The Zone Of Interest, alongside Oppenheimer's Blunt, Saltburn's Rosamund Pike, The Holdovers' Da'Vine Joy Randolph, The Colour Purple's Danielle Brooks and All Of Us Strangers' Claire Foy.

Oppenheimer's Downey Jr, will be hoping to continue his winning streak after being nominated in the Supporting Actor category. He has already won a Golden Globe and a Critics Choice award for his performance as Lewis Strauss, the chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission.

Yet he faces stiff competition from first-time BAFTA nominee Jacob Elordi for Saltburn, Robert De Niro for Killers Of The Flower Moon, Ryan Gosling for Barbie, Paul Mescal for All Of Us Strangers and Dominic Sessa for The Holdovers.

Barbie has been nominated for Original Screenplay and faces competition from Anatomy of a Fall, The Holdovers, Maestro and Past Lives.

In the Adapted Screenplay category, All of Us Strangers, American Fiction, Oppenheimer, Poor Things and The Zone of Interest go up against each other.

The contenders for Outstanding British Film are All Of Us Strangers, How To Have Sex, Napoleon, The Old Oak, Poor Things, Rye Lane, Saltburn, Scrapper, Wonka and The Zone Of Interest.

In the Animated Film category, Chicken Run: Dawn of the Nugget is competing against The Boy and the Heron, Elemental and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse.

It was previously announced that the BAFTA Fellowship, the film academy's highest honour, will be presented to actress Samantha Morton.