What a tournament it has been, with upsets, thrilling games and excellent individual displays. Here are my stand-out performers.

NEYMAR

Neymar has shown the good and rather less positive sides to his game. There is pressure on his shoulders every day. It's something he wanted and something he has to deal with. He produces great moments and it's clear his team care about him. He has great qualities but there were moments against Mexico that don't reflect positively.

It's difficult to kick him out of the game now because of VAR but we also see his reactions. If he wants to replicate Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi he needs to find his 'gentlemanly' side and realise they don't need to fall over to earn respect.

Neymar has shown the good and rather less positive sides to his game so far in Russia

JOKANOVIC Follow the Fulham boss on Twitter @Jokanovic Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sport/football/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

KYLIAN MBAPPE

He has been one of the most refreshing talents in Russia. He is quiet but aggressive, strong and incredibly quick. He has matched Pele by scoring twice in one World Cup match as a teenager, but I'm not sure he can reach his level.

He was not unknown before but his transition to a big tournament at 19 years old has been impressive. The calmness and control to his finishes reflect a mature player.

Kylian Mbappe's transition to a big tournament at 19 years old has been impressive

LUKA MODRIC

Modric has been one of the most important players in the competition. Like many of his Croatia team-mates, this is his last chance to win the World Cup. Like England, they will believe the draw is favourable.

I first heard of him when he was at Dinamo Zagreb and he has gone on to have a brilliant career with Tottenham and Real Madrid, where his achievements will go down in history. He made a mistake for his penalty against Denmark but had the mental strength to come back. At 32 years old, he will sense this could be his moment.

Croatia's Luka Modric has been one of the most important players in the competition

HARRY KANE

I said at the start he could be a star at this World Cup and he has shown quality at all the right moments. He is strong and has a real desire to be successful. He has that killer instinct that all top strikers need and seems motivated to become the best he can.

Playing for England brings great expectation but he handles that very well. He had a great run in the early games and produces important moments. The team will need to show his level of concentration to beat Sweden though.