Married At First Sight groom Collins Christian has been spotted riding a Sydney tram on his way to work, just days after he moaned about having to return to reality following his time on the dating show.

Eagle-eyed fans spotted Collins dressed in a white collar button-up shirt and black trousers on his morning commute to his job as an executive assistant.

Collins, who was paired with Natalie Parham, had previously aired his grievances about returning to his day job after his bride called time on the show.

Natalie and Collins shocked fellow participants when they sensationally quit the experiment halfway through the first dinner party.

'It just doesn't feel real and right. I'd rather him be honest than just put this mask on,' Natalie explained before they both agreed to leave.

Married At First Sight groom Collins Christian has been spotted riding a tram in Sydney on his way to work, just days after he moaned about having to return to reality following his time on the dating show

'I really wanted this to work. I wanted this just to be my happily ever after. I wanted to show us off to everybody, but I need a relationship with honesty and communication,' she continued.

Natalie, visibly distressed and far from her usual 'happy bubbly self,' addressed the group with a heartfelt goodbye.

'Being here has been a big challenge for me,' she confessed, signalling the end of her journey on the show.

Eagle-eyed fans spotted Collins dressed in a white collar button-up shirt and black trousers on his morning commute to his job as an executive assistant

Collins also acknowledged the difficulty of their decision.

'I just want to say, before you guys come up, um it's really tough, but look, we're all here for love, right?' he said.

After sharing the news with his co-stars, Collins could be seen breaking down behind the scenes.

Natalie and Collins shocked fellow participants when they sensationally quit the experiment halfway through the first dinner party

'It's over. Oh my God. I cancelled everything. I have to go back to work tomorrow,' he said.

The reactions from their fellow contestants were mixed, with some expressing skepticism over Collins' display of emotion.

Lauren Dunn openly criticised him for what she perceived as an act, suggesting he was seeking an Academy Award for his performance.

While the couple decided the next day to give it another go, they quit for a second and final time just days later.

After sharing the news with his co-stars, Collins could be seen breaking down behind the scenes. 'It's over. Oh my God. I cancelled everything. I have to go back to work tomorrow,' he said