Dua Lipa led the stars attending the British Vogue and Tiffany & Co BAFTAs 2024 afterparty at Annabel's in London on Sunday night.

The singer, 28, looked stunning in a sheer black lace dress as she joined stylish Cara Delevingne, racy Rosie Huntington-Whiteley and Anya Taylor-Joy at the star-studded event.

She turned heads in the strappy number that had a feather trim and revealed her gorgeous curves, while accessorising with a statement choker.

Meanwhile model Cara, 31, took the plunge in a daring silver gown with stud detailing as she posed up a storm.

She boosted her height with strappy black heels and wore her honey tresses in loose waves over her shoulders while opting for glowing makeup.

L-R: Dua Lipa, Cara Delevingne, Rosie Huntington-Whiteley and Anya Taylor-Joy led the stars attending the British Vogue and Tiffany & Co BAFTAs 2024 afterparty at Annabel's in London on Sunday night

She turned heads in the strappy number that had a feather trim and revealed her gorgeous curves

Elsewhere actress Anya, 27, flaunted her toned abs in a gold Fendi bralet which she teamed with a beige silk skirt.

She wore matching Jimmy Choo heels and gave a pop of colour to her makeup look with a dark pink lip.

Rosie, 36, put on a racy display in a sheer polka dot skirt which she wore with a simple roll neck jumper and pointy heels.

Kaia Gerber, Anna Wintour, Rochelle Humes and AJ Odudu were among other stars attending the afterparty.

Oppenheimer has won Best Film as well as sweeping the board in the major categories at the EE BAFTA Film Awards at The Royal Festival Hall on Sunday.

The epic biographical thriller led the wins with seven gongs, including Best Actor for Cillian Murphy, Best Supporting Actor for Robert Downey Jr. and Best Director for Christopher Nolan. It had the most nominations with 13.

The biggest night in British film returned with actor David Tennant as host and an array of guest presenters on hand to deliver awards throughout the night.

Prince William attended the ceremony in London solo as his wife Kate Middleton continues her recovery from last month's abdominal surgery.

She wore her dyed red tresses in loose waves over her shoulders and opted for a typically glam makeup look

Meanwhile model Cara, 31, took the plunge in a daring silver gown as she posed up a storm at the party

She boosted her height with strappy black heels and wore her honey tresses in loose waves over her shoulders

Elsewhere actress Anya, 27, flaunted her toned abs in a gold bralet which she teamed with a beige silk skirt

She wore matching heels and gave a pop of colour to her makeup look with a dark pink lip

Anya made sure to turn heads in her skimpy outfit as she posed up a storm for the cameras at the afterparty

She put on a confident display as she posed up a storm

Rosie, 36, put on a racy display in a sheer polka dot skirt which she wore with a simple roll neck jumper and pointy heels

She accessorised with dazzling silver jewellery from the brand

Rosie also made an appearance and wore a sheer polka dot skirt

The racy skirt was teamed with a simple black roll neck jumper

Kaia Gerber put on a leggy display in a gold mini dress as she made an appearance at the Vogue party

She teamed the leggy dress with strappy gold heels

She made sure to turn heads in the glam number

Emily Blunt flashed her abs in a white bralet and long black skirt

She was cinched in at the waist with a gold heart belt

Rosamund Pike turned heads in a sheer white jacket and puffy skirt

She looked great in the quirky co-ord as she beamed for the cameras

THE BAFTA WINNERS AT A GLANCE Best Film - Oppenheimer Best Director - Christopher Nolan, Oppenheimer Supporting Actor - Robert Downey Jr, Oppenheimer Leading Actor - Cillian Murphy, Oppenheimer Leading Actress - Emma Stone, Poor Things Supporting Actress - Da'vine Joy Randolph, The Holdovers Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Sophie Ellis-Bextor also made her way to the party after storming the stage at the ceremony

She posed at the party with her husband Richard Jones

Claire Foy also made an appearance at the bash in a white lace dress

She posed with her All Of Us Strangers co-star Andrew Scott who wore a red suit

Andrew wore the bright suit and shiny shoes

Rochelle Humes turned heads in a green ensemble

She looked as impeccable as always in the leggy number

Eleanor Tomlinson attends the British Vogue and Tiffany & Co. party

She opted for a simple black mini dress

Murphy, 47 - who plays the titular role in Nolan's atomic bomb saga - picked up the prize at the prestigious awards ceremony.

He triumphed against Bradley Cooper for Maestro, Colman Domingo for Rustin, Paul Giamatti for The Holdovers, Barry Keoghan for Saltburn and Teo Yoo for Past Lives.

Accepting the trophy, he said: 'Oh boy, holy moly, thank you very, very much BAFTA.'

He paid tribute to 'the most dynamic, kindest producer-director partnership in Hollywood: Chris Nolan and Emma Thomas, thank you for seeing something in me that I probably didn't see in myself.'

The Irish actor said to Nolan: 'Thank for always pushing me and demanding excellence because that is what you deliver time and time again.'

Nolan also acknowledged his 'fellow nominees and my Oppenhomies', adding: 'I know it's a cliché to say, but I'm in awe of you.'

He said J Robert Oppenheimer was a 'colossally knotty character', adding: 'We have a space to debate and interrogate and investigate that complexity and it's a privilege to be a part of this community with you all.

Downey Jr, 58, also collected a BAFTA for his role as Lewis Strauss in the Hollywood blockbuster, which has swept the board during the 2024 awards season.

He admitted he owes the award to Nolan, producer Emma Thomas and leading man Murphy, as well as 'British influence'.

Gesturing to Nolan, he said: 'Recently that dude suggested I attempt an understated approach as a last ditch effort to resurrect my dwindling credibility.'

Downey Jr's win set a new record for the longest gap between wins by any performer as it comes 31 years after his previous BAFTA, for the 1993 film Chaplin.

The previous record was 27 years, set by Sir Anthony Hopkins in 2021 when he won the award for best actor for The Father, nearly three decades after his 1994 win for Shadowlands.

Nolan won the Best Director BAFTA for Oppenheimer, his epic tale of how the nuclear bomb was created.

Before accepting the award from actor Hugh Grant, Nolan hugged Murphy.

Nolan joked that his brother 'beat him up here' by being in a chorus of a production 40 years ago.

Nolan has previously lost out despite numerous commercial successes such as Inception and The Dark Knight, the UK-born filmmaker won out against Jonathan Glazer [The Zone of Interest], Justine Triet [Anatomy of a Fall], Alexander Payne [The Holdovers], Bradley Cooper [Maestro] and Andrew Haigh [All of Us Strangers].

He paid tribute to Murphy and added to those who backed the film: 'Thank you for taking on something dark'.

The director also acknowledged the efforts of nuclear disarmament organisations to bring peace.

Oppenheimer swept up in the big name categories, but it was closely followed by the surreal black comedy Poor Things.

It marked five awards for the film, as Emma Stone collected the Best Actress gong for her turn as Bella Baxter.

Accepting her award, she said: 'Since we're in London, I want to start by thanking dialect coach. She praised him for not laughing at her when he taught her how to say 'water'.

Idris Elba and wife Sabrina looked as loved-up as ever at the bash

She wore a silk white dress while he opted for a smart khaki ensemble

Emerald Fennell wore a black suit and cropped red top

She also wore glitzy jewellery from the brand

Mia McKenna-Bruce also wore a halterneck black dress with gold detailing on it

Nicola Coughlan looked as stylish as ever at the bash

The Bridgerton star wore a plunging black blazer dress

She posed with her co-star Luke Newton

FKA Twigs looked great in a beige ensemble

Jameela Jamil wore a glamorous black velvet dress

She accessorised with statement silver jewellery

Poppy Delevingne attends the British Vogue and Tiffany & Co after party

She flashed plenty of flesh in a racy black co-ord

Wallis Day wore a leggy black dress and pointy stilettos

She looked as glowing as ever with natural makeup

Alexa Chung and her beau Tom Sturridge posed together at the bash

She wore a sheer gold dress and black tights

The couple looked as loved-up as ever

AJ Odudu turned heads in a silver studded black sheer number

Under the sheer dress was a sexy black bodysuit

Da'Vine Joy Randolph wore a busty bow design black dress

Anna Wintour, Cara Delevingne and Lewis Hamilton posed together

The trio had a good catch up at the party

Anna wore a flowing silver and black dress

Anna still had on her statement black shades

Her hair was in the usual sleek bob

Cara and Anna were chatting away

Anna looked in great spirits at the party

Cara posed with Chioma Nnadi at the bash

James Marsden attends the British Vogue and Tiffany & Co. party

Laura Bailey attends the British Vogue And Tiffany & Co. bash

Lady Mary Charteris wore a leggy white silk dress

Charli Howard left little to the imagination in a sheer black dress

She covered her modesty in the racy number

Alfie Allen wore a smart grey suit at the bash

Lennon Gallagher wore a cool denim jacket

Regé-Jean Page wore a chic velvet shirt

'I really wanted to thank my mum, because she's the best person I know. Without her none of this would exist, including my life, so thank you for that Mum.'

The American actress said she was 'in awe' of all of the team behind the film, where she plays the part of a woman who is reanimated and implanted with the brain of a baby.

She paid tribute to the writers for coming up with the line 'I must go punch that baby' in a memorable dinner scene, and also hailed director Yorgos Lanthimos for 'our friendship and the gift of Bella'.

Also thanking her mother, Stone said: 'She kind of made me believe this crazy idea that I can do something like this.'