Decked out with 40 restaurants and bars, the world's largest cruise ship Icon of the Seas certainly caters to all passenger tastes.

And now, as the 1,198ft long vessel makes its way around the globe on its inaugural voyage, a spread of cruise goers have been offering a glimpse of some of the culinary delights on offer.

In a TikTok uploaded by @magic_vacations, travel agents Suzie and Lee Altpeter rate some of the bites on offer at the informal Basecamp eatery, which serves up food to passengers throughout the day so they can 'refuel between adventures.'

Suzie and Lee gave the restaurant's free pretzel bites a 6 out of 10, the $9 grilled chicken sandwich an 8 out of 10, and the $7 waffle chicken nuggets an 8.5 out of 10.

Rounding it out, the $6 Wisconsin cheese curds scored highest marks with a 9.5 out of 10. Overall, the couple branded the food 'delicious.'

In a TikTok created by travel agents Suzie and Lee Altpeter, they rate some of the bites on offer at the Basecamp eatery (left), including the pretzel bites (right)

Meanwhile the chicken sandwich served with tater tots (left) were rated an eight out of 10 by the pair, and the waffle chicken bites (right) scored an 8.5

The Icon of the Seas sails out of the Miami port on Saturday as crowds of people watched on

In another food-focused TikTok, cruise goer John Balboa checks into Giovanni's Italian Kitchen with a companion.

In the clip, he explains: 'We were one of the first to dine onboard Icon of the Seas at Giovanni's Italian Kitchen.

'We started with white wine and garlic rolls, and shared the assorted meat and cheese platter, which was delicious.

'We then had the meatball gigante and the burrata.'

For main course, John and his friend tried the restaurant's 'lasagna classica' and the spaghetti carbonara - which they said were 'divine' - and the 'unique' truffle and egg pizza also took their fancy.

To finish in true Italian style, they had the tiramisu.

They concluded: 'A 10/10 experience! Highly recommend for a taste adventure on board!'

Offering a taste of what an average day looks like eating aboard Icon of the Sea, Kristel Kouly made a TikTok video showing everything she ate in 24 hours.

In another food-focused TikTok, cruise goer John Balboa checks into Giovanni's Italian Kitchen with a companion

After sharing an assorted meat and cheese platter (left), they had the meatball gigante and the burrata (right)

They concluded: 'A 10/10 experience! Highly recommend for a taste adventure on board!'

@johnbalboa Savoring flavors aboard the 'Icon of the Seas' 🌊 at Giovanni’s Italian Kitchen & Bar 🍝. Kicking off with garlic rolls & white wine 🍷, then onto a luscious meat & cheese platter 🧀, and heavenly burrata. Main course? Perfect lasagna & carbonara 🍝, plus a unique truffle & egg pizza 🍕. Finished with classic Tiramisu 🍰. A 10/10 experience 🌟! Highly recommend for a taste adventure on board! #IconOfTheSeas @Royal Caribbean #GiovannisItalianKitchen ♬ Italian Dinner Party - Italian Restaurant Music of Italy

In her video, the food influencer explains: 'We started off everyday at the Pearl Cafe - one of our favorites - and then did lunch at the Windjammer Buffet [where there were] so many options for everyone and a beautiful view.'

In the afternoon she filmed herself enjoying a beverage from the juice bar and she ventured to the Surfside neighborhood for 'some delicious chicken bites.'

Continuing on her culinary tour, she went to the AquaDome Market, which she described as a 'food hall concept with delicious Mediterranean and Asian food.'

For her last meal of the day, she checked into Sorrento's pizza parlor.

Meanwhile, food and travel influencer Giselle Chusan crafted a similar blow-by-blow account of everything she consumed in one day on the ship.

She tells viewers, as she showcases the mix of meals: 'So I started off my morning getting a bagel at the Bagel Bar where you can pick all the toppings you would like.

'I had to fuel up with the protein smoothie after the gym and then got a rotisserie chicken melt, which comes with this delicious focaccia bread.'

Other things she ate included a soft serve ice cream because she said it was 'impossible' to walk by one of the vendors without getting one, some 'revolutionary' waffle chicken nuggets, a vanilla and salted caramel milkshake topped with donkey-shaped piñata, and some cheese curds, which she described as one of her 'favorite bites of the day.'

For dinner, Giselle tried the 'giant' meatball from Giovanni's Italian Kitchen, as well as a chicken parmigiana, which she says 'you can literally never go wrong with.'

Before bed, the TikTok creator said the 'only way to end the night is by having a slice of pizza' from Sorrento's.

Offering a taste of what an average day looks like eating aboard Icon of the Sea, Kristel Kouly made a TikTok showing everything she ate in 24 hours

Some of the offerings at the Windjammer Buffet (left) where there were 'so many options for everyone and a beautiful view. On the right, Kristel enjoys a beverage from the Juice Bar

She ventured to the Surfside neighborhood for 'some delicious chicken bites' (left) and the AquaDome Market, which she described as a 'food hall concept.' Right is a dish from the venue

Food and travel influencer Giselle Chusan (left) crafted a similar blow-by-blow account of everything she consumed in one day on the ship, including a protein smoothie (right)

The cruise goer said the cheese curds (left) were her 'favorite bites of the day,' while for dinner, she tried the 'giant' meatball (right) from Giovanni's Italian Kitchen

The TikTok creator says you can never go wrong with a plate of chicken parmigiana (left), and before bed, she recommends grabbing a slice of pizza from Sorrento's (right)

TikTok creator Dawn Marie decided to show her followers everything she ate in the main dining room while she was on the ship.

The ship's website notes that the cavernous restaurant serves up 'delectably different three-course themes to taste your way around the world together.'

Before documenting the food, Dawn offers a glimpse of the dining space which includes multiple levels, balconies and a shimmering central chandelier, and she describes it as 'absolutely stunning.'

Some of the dishes she and a friend consumed during French- and Italian-themed dinners included escargot, a spinach and artichoke dip, a prime rib, calamari, arancini, a lobster tail and lemon tart.

The travel expert also ate in the main dining room for breakfast one day where she tucked into a 'pretty simple' medley of 'eggs, toast, grits, hash browns and Danishes.'

As for drinks, a TikTok uploaded by @magicfamilygetaways showcases 'the best cocktail on the Icon.'

In the clip, the bartender can be seen using a contraption to form a bubble shape on top of a martini glass.

TikTok creator Dawn Marie decided to show her followers everything she ate in the main dining room while she was on the ship

Some of the dishes she and a friend consumed during French and Italian themed dinners included a prime rib and a 'royal' cheesecake

The travel expert also ate in the main dining room for breakfast one day where she tucked into a 'pretty simple' medley, while a lobster tail was another culinary highlight

As for drinks, a TikTok uploaded by @magicfamilygetaways showcases 'the best cocktail on the Icon'

For non-drinkers, Megan duBois recommends the vanilla and salted caramel milkshake topped with a donkey-shaped piñata

In the comments section, the cruise goer explains that the unusual looking drink is 'called the 1400 and named after the 1400 bar it's served in.'

They add: 'I'd say it's kinda like a tequila martini with lemon flavor.'

For non-drinkers, Megan duBois recommends the vanilla and salted caramel milkshake topped with a donkey-shaped piñata.

She captioned a clip of her enjoying the shake: 'After sailing for three days on Icon of the Seas I can confidently say the best thing to get on this EPIC ship is the piñata-topped churro-flavored milkshake from Desserted!

'The shake can even be made boozy with a tiny bottle of Fireball stuffed into the top of the towering creation.'