Kathy Hilton has listed her 10,000-square-foot Hamptons getaway for a remarkable $15 million, more than six times the initial price she paid 20 years ago.

Nestled on 2.7 acres, the opulent estate, owned by Paris Hilton's parents Rick and Kathy, features six bedrooms, seven and a half bathrooms, a lagoon-style gunite swimming pool and multiple terraces.

In 1999, the Hiltons acquired this extravagant property for $2.38 million, and today, they are seeking $14.95 million for the 10,500-square-foot residence that has been a cherished setting for their holiday celebrations throughout the years.

Among the many cherished moments is the Thanksgiving of 2019, when the Hiltons celebrated, and Paris met her now-husband, Carter Reum.

Rick told the Wall Street Journal: 'The layout is perfect for comfortable living and entertaining, and we have countless happy memories there.'

Kathy Hilton has listed her 10,000-square-foot Hamptons getaway for a remarkable $15million, more than six times the initial price she paid 20 years ago

Nestled on 2.7 acres, the opulent estate, owned by Paris Hilton's parents Rick and Kathy, features six bedrooms, 7.5 bathrooms, a lagoon-style gunite swimming pool and multiple terraces

In 1999, the Hiltons acquired this extravagant property for $2.38 million, and today, they are seeking $14.95 million for the 10,500-square-foot residence that has been a cherished setting for their holiday celebrations throughout the years

The 1990s built home is masterfully designed with three wood-burning fireplaces, a library, formal dining room, den, and completely private and spacious guest quarters, according to listing agent Jared Seligman with Cororan Group

Besides numerous terraces off most bedrooms, the Hiltons' property features a spacious outdoor dining pavilion, a gunite pool, and a hot tub. Pictured: one of multiple living areas

Besides numerous terraces off most bedrooms, the Hiltons' property features a spacious outdoor dining pavilion, a gunite pool, and a hot tub. Pictured: another living area

The 1990s-built home is masterfully designed with three wood-burning fireplaces, a library, formal dining room, den, and completely private and spacious guest quarters, according to listing agent Jared Seligman with Corcoran Group

Besides numerous terraces off most bedrooms, the Hiltons' property features a spacious outdoor dining pavilion, a gunite pool and a hot tub.

Nestled in a prestigious, gated community on the boarder of Southampton and Watermill, approximately 90 miles from New York City, the shingle-style home comes with deeded access to Fowlers Beach, less than a mile away.

The main bedroom comes with a spacious closet and a substantial primary bathroom with all the amenities one could think of.

The property is nestled in a prestigious, gated community on the boarder of Southampton and Watermill, approximately 90 miles from New York City

The 1990s built home is masterfully designed with three wood-burning fireplaces, a library, formal dining room, and all amenities one could wish for

The main bedroom comes with a spacious closet and a substantial primary bathroom with all the amenities one could think of. Pictured: the main bathroom

The residence is further complemented by a three-car garage, a porte-cochère, and a finished basement, enhancing the allure of this Hamptons gem, according to the agent. Pictured: The grand foyer

The shingle-style home comes with deeded access to Fowlers Beach, less than a mile away. Pictured: the former dining room

Since relocating to Los Angeles in the 2000s, the opulent property has been used less often by the Hilton family. Pictured: another living room

In 2018, the listing notes, the Hiltons renovated the gourmet kitchen(pictured), all bathrooms, and grand primary suite

The residence is further complemented by a three-car garage, a porte-cochère, and a finished basement, enhancing the allure of this Hamptons gem, according to the agent.

Since relocating to Los Angeles in the 2000s, the opulent property has been used less often by the Hilton family.

Over the years, they have intermittently rented out the Southampton estate, with a six-figure price tag for such occasions.

In the summer of 2018, it was available for only one week at the staggering rate of $50,000.

Since relocating to Los Angeles in the 2000s, the opulent property has been used less often by the Hilton family

Rick(left) told the Wall Street Journal: 'The layout is perfect for comfortable living and entertaining, and we have countless happy memories there'

Among the many cherished moments is the Thanksgiving of 2019, when the Hiltons celebrated, and Paris(left) met her now-husband, Carter Reum (right)

The same year, the listing notes, the Hiltons renovated the gourmet kitchen, all bathrooms, and grand primary suite.

The listing agent wrote: 'Truly rare for something of this size, acreage, history, and condition to become available in Fortune.'

According to a Douglas Elliman report, homes in Southampton commanded a median price of $1.615 million in the fourth quarter of 2023, a notable increase of 24.5 percent compared to the same period in the previous year.

Seligman with Corcoran declined DailyMail.com's request for comments on the listing.