Brad Pitt and girlfriend Ines de Ramon have reportedly moved in together.

Ines, 34, has moved into the 60-year-old actor's home, according to People's sources.

'It's pretty recent. They are going very strong and she is happier than ever,' the insider said, adding that she still has her place as well.

Brad Pitt and girlfriend Ines de Ramon have reportedly moved in together

Brad and Ines were first linked in November 2022 after they were spotted at a Bono concert.

They were seen two months after Ines separated from her husband Paul Wesley after three years of marriage.

He took her to his Babylon premiere in December 2022, followed by birthday celebrations, New Year's Eve together and a trip to Paris.

They also were together to ring in Brad's 60th birthday in December.

Brad attended the Santa Barbara International Film Festival with Ines last week.

The actor attended the film festival to help honor his pal Bradley Cooper with the outstanding performer of the year award.

Ines, 34, has moved into the 60-year-old actor's home, according to People 's sources; seen February 8, 2024

Brad and Ines were first linked in November 2022 after they were spotted at a Bono concert

Brad and Ines were seated next to each other at the event - which took place at Arlington Theater - as seen in Hello! magazine.

The couple sat behind Bradley and his Maestro co-star Carey Mulligan.

According to Hello! Ines had her hand on Brad's thigh for most of the event, with the couple laughing and chatting with each other.

A source told People: 'He seemed to be in very good spirits onstage when he presented the award to Bradley and poked fun at his friend, joking that he was just here for the free trip to Santa Barbara.'

Brad donned a brown pantsuit and button up shirt while Ines wore a blue turtleneck dress.

His sighting at the festival however came just two days after Brad was accused of 'volatile' behavior on the set of his 1994 film Legends of The Fall by the project's director - Ed Zwick.

In an excerpt from his new memoir, 'Hits, Flops, and Other Illusions: My Fortysomething Years in Hollywood', Zwick, 71, discussed his rocky relationship with Pitt.

The filmmaker wrote that Pitt 'can be volatile when riled', as per excerpt published by Vanity Fair, and 'would get edgy whenever he was about to shoot a scene that required him to display deep emotion.'

He recalled one of their on set 'dustups' writing: 'I don’t know who yelled first, who swore, or who threw the first chair. Me, maybe? But when we looked up, the crew had disappeared. And this wasn't the last time it happened.'

Pitt was cast in the role of Tristan Ludlow after Tom Cruise dropped out, though his agent allegedly called Zwick after the first table read 'to say Brad wanted to quit.'

Producer Marshall Herskovitz eventually convinced him to stay.

'It was the first augury of the deeper springs of emotion roiling inside Brad. He seems easygoing at first, but he can be volatile when riled, as I was to be reminded more than once as shooting began and we took each other's measure, ' Zwick wrote.

They were seen two months after Ines separated from her husband Paul Wesley after three years of marriage, seen in 2019

'Sometimes, no matter how experienced or sensitive you are as a director, things just aren't working.'

'His ideas about Tristan differed from mine,' Zwick went on.

'Brad had grown up with men who held their emotions in check; I believed the point of the [Legends of the Fall] novel was that a man's life was the sum of his griefs... Yet the more I pushed Brad to reveal himself, the more he resisted. So, I kept pushing and Brad pushed back.'

He recalled on instance when he gave Pitt a direction in front of the crew, which he admitted was 'a stupid, shaming provocation.'

'Brad came back at me, also out loud, telling me to back off. The considered move would have been to tell the crew to take five and for the two of us to talk it out. But I was feeling bloody-minded, and not about to relent.'

'I was angry at Brad for not trusting me to influence his performance. Also for the reluctance he’d shown after the first table read. Who knows, I might even have been acting out my own inability to be vulnerable.'

'But Brad wasn’t about to give in without a fight. In his defense, I was pushing him to do something he felt was either wrong for the character, or more "emo" than he wanted to appear onscreen.'

He then detailed a moment where they allegedly yelled, swore and threw chairs.

'Eventually the crew grew accustomed to our dustups and would walk away and let us have it out. "We hate it when the parents fight," said one.'

Zwick shared that though they would 'blowup' at each other, they would later 'make up and mean it.'

The director went on to state that Pitt is 'a forthright, straightforward person, fun to be with and capable of great joy. He was never anything less than fully committed to doing his best.

When the film was completed and Zwick shared the final cut with the actor, he wrote that Pitt 'wasn't pleased' and 'felt I'd underplayed his character's madness.'

He recalled one of their on set 'dustups' writing they allegedly 'yelled, swore and threw chairs' and that it 'wasn't the last time it happened'; (L-R) Zwick, Marshall Herskovitz and Pitt in 2015

His sighting at the festival however came just two days after Brad was accused of 'volatile' behavior on the set of his 1994 film Legends of The Fall by the project's director - Ed Zwick; Brad seen in a still from Legends Of The Fall

Legends of the Fall had Pitt starring opposite Anthony Hopkins, Aidan Quinn, Julia Ormond and Henry Thomas, and was based on Jim Harrison's novella.

The film, which was nominated for three Academy Awards and won for cinematography, follows three brothers and their father living on the plains of Montana in the early 20th century.

Though he is known for his laid-back public persona, Pitt has previously been accused of volatile behavior by ex-wife Angelina Jolie, 48.

The movie stars, who met in 2004 while filming Mr. And Mrs. Smith, share six children together: sons Maddox, 22, Pax, 20, and Knox, 15, and daughters Zahara, 19, Shiloh, 17, and Vivienne, 15.

Jolie adopted Maddox in 2002, then Zahara in 2005, a year after she'd met Pitt while the pair filmed Mr and Mrs Smith. He was married to Jennifer Aniston at the time.

They then adopted Pax together in 2007, and had biological kids Shiloh, Knox and Vivienne afterwards. Pitt adopted all of the kids before they got married in 2014.

Though he is known for his laid-back public persona, Pitt has previously been accused of volatile behavior by ex-wife Angelina Jolie, 48; Brad and Angelina pictured snuggling up January 7, 2008 at the 13th Annual Critics' Choice Awards in Santa Monica

The movie stars, who met in 2004 while filming Mr. And Mrs. Smith, share six children together: sons Maddox, 22, Pax, 20, and Knox, 15, and daughters Zahara, 19, Shiloh, 17, and Vivienne, 15; seen as a family in Tokyo on November 8, 2011

They married in August 2014 after 10 years together but Angelina filed for divorce in September 2016.

At the time, Angelina chose to file 'for the health of the family,' according to the Associated Press, and asked for physical custody of the children.

They were declared single by a judge in 2019 but their divorce remains ongoing.

A new report from US Weekly claimed the stars are nearing the end of their divorce - seven years after she first filed divorce papers.

They're navigating the last of the red tape, which is a huge relief and morale boost,' the source said.

The insider said: 'It saddens him [Brad] that he's not on better terms with some of his kids, and he regrets that things got so acrimonious with Angelina, but the days of looking back in anger are behind him.'