Tolkien fans can live out their Lord of the Rings fantasies courtesy of a Hobbit-esque home which has hit the market for $425,000 in Pennsylvania.

Described as an 'arch tech' home by realtors, the abode features a curved grass roof which is said to 'keep heating and cooling costs low.'

The unique abode was built in 1988 on a four acre lot and it marks the first time it has gone on sale since it was constructed.

Photos of the home's clean, white washed interiors show how rooms on the second floor - including the primary bedroom - have arched ceilings while the rooms on the ground floor follow a more traditional format.

Tolkien fans can live out their Lord of the Rings fantasies courtesy of a Hobbit-esque home which has hit the market for $425,000 in Pennsylvania

Described as an 'arch tech' home by realtors, the abode features a curved grass roof which is said to 'keep heating and cooling costs low'

. Photos of the home's clean, white washed interiors show how rooms on the second floor - including the primary bedroom - have arched ceilings while the rooms on the ground floor follow a more traditional format

On entering the home, the listing reveals that there is a 'beautiful wooden spiral staircase' through the foyer

The unique abode was built in 1988 on a four acre lot and it marks the first time it has gone on sale since it was constructed

Unlike the Hobbit homes in Lord of the Rings, the Pennsylvania property at 180 Grove Road has a standard glass front door instead of a round entranceway

When pictures of the house emerged on Facebook, many commenters likened it to the Hobbit homes in Lord of the Rings.

One person said: 'I'd like to live in the Shire!'

While another fan said it looked 'like a large Hobbit Hole!'

The original homes used in the film adaptations of J.R.R. Tolkien's books are located in New Zealand's Waikato region on a 2,500 acre working farm and the movie set is open seven days a week for tours.

Unlike the original Hobbit homes, the Pennsylvania property at 180 Grove Road has a standard glass front door instead of a round entranceway and airier interiors.

On entering the home, the listing reveals that there is a 'beautiful wooden spiral staircase' through the foyer.

Other rooms on the ground floor include a kitchen with 'great views' of the backyard, a dining room with sliding glass doors, two bedrooms, a full bathroom and a laundry room.

Venturing up the spiral staircase to the second floor, there is then an 'expansive' living room opening up on to an outdoor deck, and a primary bedroom decked out with a walk in closet and full bathroom.

When pictures of the house emerged on Facebook, many commenters likened it to the Hobbit homes in Lord of the Rings

While the realtors note that the home 'needs TLC' they say the 'potential is immense'

In terms of its location, the property is located close to French Creek State Park, Ludwig's Corner Show Grounds and it is in a desirable school district

The home is currently available for $425,000 following a $25,000 price cut with Scott Gullaksen of Keller Williams Realty

Other perks of the property include a large three car garage which is described as a 'perfect for someone who has a few cars, or likes to work on cars, or has an oversized vehicle like an RV / motor home'

The home is accessed via a gravel driveway with stunning views as far as the eye can see

Other perks of the property include a large three car garage which is described as a 'perfect for someone who has a few cars, or likes to work on cars, or has an oversized vehicle like an RV / motor home.'

While the realtors note that the home 'needs TLC' they say the 'potential is immense.'

In terms of its location, the property is located close to French Creek State Park, Ludwig's Corner Show Grounds and it is in a desirable school district.

The home is currently available for $425,000 following a $25,000 price cut with Scott Gullaksen of Keller Williams Realty.