We’ve all been there. That horrible moment when you check in online, opt not to pay for a specific seat and are then assigned the dreaded one in the middle. Or, even worse, you sit in your unasked-for middle seat and wait nervously until the last passenger to board the plane sits in the window seat – crushing your dreams of sliding over once the doors close.

But there are a handful of tips and tricks which can all but guarantee you a window or aisle seat - and won’t cost you a penny. Here’s our middle-seat dodging guide – and what to do if you’re stuck in the middle.

We are all familiar with the feeling of disappointment upon realising we've been assigned the middle seat on a plane, stuck between two strangers

LEAVE IT LATE

Low-cost carriers Ryanair and Wizz Air assign you a ‘random seat’ at check-in unless you pay a fee - typically between £4 and £52 per flight. Those who don’t pay this fee routinely are auto assigned a middle seat. To avoid this, check in at the latest point (but no later than three hours before flight) when all the middle seats have already been assigned to passengers who have checked in and not paid for a specific seat. That way, you’ll still be given a ‘random seat’, but it’s highly likely to be an aisle or window seat.

IF YOU DON’T ASK...

Never be afraid to ask staff at the check in gate if there are any window and aisle seats free. They can very easily reassign your seat and print you a new boarding pass. Alternatively, if you find yourself sandwiched between two larger passengers, politely and discreetly ask a member of cabin crew if there are any aisle or window seats available. They will understand why you’re asking and should agree if there’s space and time before take off.

CHECK THE AIRCRAFT MODEL

On long-haul flights, check the plane model. If you can, go for a Boeing 767, a plane which is arranged in a 2-3-2 layout, meaning there’s only one middle seat in each row of seven passengers, or Airbus A330 (one of the most popular wide-body aircrafts in the world) which has a 2-4-2 configuration. On two-deck planes such as the A380, select seats on the upper deck as these are almost always in a 2-4-2 configuration.

CHOOSE SMALLER PLANES

When flying domestically, opt for an airline with a fleet of smaller planes. In the UK, these airlines include Aurigny, Loganair and Eastern. They tend to have four seat rows with a 2-2 configuration, meaning you’re guaranteed an aisle or window.

BOARD LAST

While boarding, wait until the line begins to vanish at the gate and join the queue. This way, you’ll get the first pick of any remaining seats.

GO FOR GOLD

Sign up to British Airways Executive Club and become a Gold Member by spending and building up points on a BA Amex and the carrier will block the seat next to you in economy, giving you room to stretch out. They will only release the seat if the flight is absolutely full.

BAG A WHOLE ROW

If you’re travelling as a couple on a long haul flight and the cabin isn’t full when checking in, choose an aisle and window seat in the same row. Most long haul airlines allow passengers to choose a seat for free, so it’s highly unlikely someone will choose to sit in the middle, meaning you should get the full row to yourselves, increasing your comfort and chances of some shut eye. If someone does sit in the middle, they’ll most likely be happy to move to the aisle or the window seat so you can sit with your travel partner.

HOW TO STAY SANE IF YOU’RE STUCK IN THE MIDDLE

Etiquette says you get both armrests so claim them early on. The window passengers can lean up against the wall of the plane, while the aisle passenger can lean outwards into the aisle. If this is questioned, explain this calmly and get the cabin crew’s assistance if it all gets unpleasant.

Go to the loo at the gate to avoid having to interrupt your neighbour mid-film or snooze.

Say hello to your neighbours as they sit down to break the ice and establish some good will.

Board as early as possible. This will give you time to sort yourself and your belongings without bashing into your neighbours