It'll 'feel like being in another dimension', the website claims

The Bali camp offers men the chance to become 'extraordinary'

This is the secret room in the anime series where characters accelerate growth

Hidden within the northern mountains of Bali lies a secret male-only training camp that aims to 'supercharge' guests - and turn them into 'superheroes'.

A YouTube trailer for the facility asks: 'Why in times of hyper-abundance do we as men feel more anxious, more depressed, more lost than ever before? We need to provide the conditions for strong men to rise up again. A center to create superheroes.'

The camp is called The Bali Time Chamber and bills itself as 'the real-life version' of the Dragon Ball Z hyperbolic time chamber, the secret room on the anime TV series where characters could accelerate their growth.

Likewise, the Bali camp allows men to disconnect from the real world and 'grow like never before'. It's 'where extraordinary men are made', the trailer adds.

One participant, speaking on a short film about the camp, says: '[We're ruled by] children who've never had the initiation into manhood. They've never been taught what it means to be a strong man. We're in a period of good times - and weak men. We need to provide the conditions for strong men to rise up again without waiting for a global war to initiate this movement.'

The Bali Time Chamber (above) is 'where extraordinary men are made'

The secluded retreat, 'only accessible by a small footpath', features four minimalistic cabins that accommodate four people. Each person has a private room inside the cabin with a bed, working space and 'incredible views'. There is also a shared area.

It'll 'feel like being in another dimension', the website claims.

All meals are included, and guests will 'feast like a king on steak, fish, tropical fruits and more'.

There's a private gym where men can reach 'peak physical performance'. It comes fully equipped with squat racks, barbells, dumbbells, weighted belts and more.

One participant reveals that he put on 'seven kilograms of muscle' and now 'feels beastly'.

The Bali Time Chamber bills itself as 'the real-life version' of the Dragon Ball Z hyperbolic time chamber', the secret room on the anime TV series where characters could supercharge their growth

One participant reveals that he put on 'seven kilograms of muscle' and now 'feels beastly'

There is also a mountain-facing spa, complete with a wood-burning sauna, hot tub and cold-plunge pools. Plus, guests have 'secret access' to nearby waterfalls.

Also included in the experience are laundry and cleaning services, high-speed internet, a free massage, and pick-up and drop-off services from the airport in Bali.

The minimum stay at The Bali Time Chamber is one week and is priced at €1,290 (£1,105.90/ $1,404.98).

Guests can expand their visit to two weeks for €2,390 (£2,048.73/$2,602.96), three weeks for €3,390 (£2,905.79/$3,692.07) and four weeks for €4,290 (£3,677.23/$4,672.02).

To book a stay at The Bali Time Chamber, you must apply via its website at balitimechamber.com. For more information watch the official documentary at www.youtube.com/watch.