Byron Bay clothing label Yöli & Otis has sparked outrage after customers were left waiting for their online purchases for up to six months, as its glamorous owner travelled the world.

Founded by mother-of-two Lena Catterick, Yöli & Otis brands itself as a sustainable, luxury fashion label for adults and kids with a bohemian taste for style.

Catterick also inspires her followers by sharing idyllic pictures of lavish hotels and enviable locations that she is visiting around the globe.

However even die-hard fans have recently slammed the brand recently, after they became sick of waiting for their packages to arrive.

Many have lashed out on social media, with one recently commenting underneath a photo Catterick's posted from a lavish resort getaway to Indonesia: 'Lovely photo. Wondering if you are going to address the many people waiting months for orders they've paid for though?'

Byron Bay clothing label Yöli & Otis has sparked outrage after customers were left waiting for their online purchases for up to six months, as its glamorous owner travelled the world. (Pictured: Founder Lena Catterick)

'Does anyone know, are they still in business? It has almost been 6 months since I purchased in August and the seller was scheduled to ship in September and then has been continually delaying shipment,' another commenter wrote, in part.

Some customers claimed their emails were 'blocked' by the brand.

Catterick has since apologised for the delays. 'I just would very much like to sincerely apologise to everyone and stress these delays were never intentional,' she said, according to The Daily Telegraph.

Many have lashed out on social media, with one recently commenting underneath a photo Catterick's posted from a lavish resort getaway to Indonesia: 'Lovely photo. Wondering if you are going to address the many people waiting months for orders they've paid for though?'

Lena denied that the brand had blocked emails, explaining the situation was just a system error.

'Everyone has been communicated with about these issues in the last few months. No emails weren't blocked, our emails were down for 4 days- Friday sat Sunday and Monday.

'Finally orders will arrive next week and I will personally email everyone apologising and thanking them from the bottom of my heart for their incredible support, and the opportunity to earn back their trust. It means everything right now.'

Catterick has since apologised for the delays. 'I just would very much like to sincerely apologise to everyone and stress these delays were never intentional,' she said, according to The Daily Telegraph

According to The Daily Telegraph, customers also issued a complaint about the failed orders with NSW Fair Trading.

Catterick last made headlines in June 2020 after the brand shared a contentious Instagram post about 'mainstream media' and 'political agendas' following the death of George Floyd amid the Covid-19 pandemic.

In her post, Catterick suggested the recent events were part of a cover-up for bigger political issues.

Lena denied that the brand had blocked emails, explaining the situation was just a system error

Catterick also said she receives her information from 'an alternative view' and referred to anti-vaxxer conspiracy theorists, celebrity chef Pete Evans and anti-vaxx ex-Home and Away actor, Isabel Lucas.

'I believe we need to look deeper. A connection needs to be made between those in power and their ability to push the world in one direction or another to suit their own invested interests,' the statement read.

'If they wanted to end racism and division, they could. If they wanted to end poverty, they could. If they wanted to reverse the effects of global warming, they could. The system fuels violence, they perpetuate fear, create division, inequality, poverty, protect the elite.'

Catterick said she was aware of her 'privilege' as a white woman and insisted that she was not undervaluing the life of Floyd.

Catterick last made headlines in June 2020 after the brand shared a contentious Instagram post about 'mainstream media' and 'political agendas' following the death of George Floyd amid the Covid-19 pandemic