After a grim winter, the hint of spring in the air this week made me feel quite giddy. And I’m not the only one: my inbox is full of letters asking about treatments to tone your body in time for the summer season.

I usually get requests for advice with only weeks to spare. Unfortunately, while some non-surgical tweaks can erase niggles that healthy eating and exercise can’t touch, the scalpel-free nips and tucks take months to show results.

That’s why this is the right time to talk about the procedures I rate (and, I’m not easily impressed). None will make you lose weight quickly, but will bring about small changes to boost your confidence. And that is often worth the (considerable) investment.

Zap the ‘saddlebags’: Cryolipolysis

Yes, I mean ‘fat-freezing’ or CoolSculpting, which has been demonised after supermodel Linda Evangelista’s much-publicised bad experience.

While some non-surgical tweaks can erase niggles that healthy eating and exercise can’t touch, the scalpel-free nips and tucks take months to show results

But it’s no riskier than most other non-surgical fat removal technologies and by far the most effective for minimising ‘pinchable’ fat pockets on bums, tums, arms, chins and thighs: nothing else has made such a clear difference to my saddlebags.

The cryolipolysis technology uses paddles to freeze fatty bulges, killing fat cells in half an hour to an hour. It feels like freezer burn for a few minutes before the area goes comfortably numb. Your flesh thaws quickly but you can feel a bit bruised (for the abdomen, it can be a few days’ discomfort).

Over the following three months your lymphatic system rids the body of the dead cells, and you lose volume permanently. A second or even third cycle of treatment is often required after those three months to get a truly satisfactory result.

Use an experienced practitioner, and don’t opt for inferior technology. Stick to the doctor-approved Deleo Cristal Pro and Zeltiq CoolSculpting (search coolsculpting.com for clinics). Cost varies from £400 to £800 per paddle per treatment.

Tone that tummy: Emsculpt Neo

This machine emits high-intensity focused electromagnetic energy to contract muscles in an area of your choice (such as glutes or abs) 20,000 times in 30 minutes — equivalent to 30,000 crunches. Meanwhile, radiofrequency heat helps local fat cells ‘burn’ their contents and shrink (the cells aren’t killed off as with cryolipolysis), firming skin and making it look smoother and tighter.

It’s good for post-partum tummies and can give you a mild washboard stomach if you don’t have too much padding.

Despite some claims, this should not be seen as a weight-loss treatment.

Over four weekly half-hour sessions, you simply lie there with a paddle strapped to your ‘area’. The contractions it induces are seriously uncomfortable, but not painful.

Prices start at £500 per session and results can last a year. Search btlaes thetics.com for clinics.

Beauty expert Inge van Lotringen (pictured) reveals four procedures that will bring about small changes to boost your confidence

Smooth out cellulite: Sunekos Cell

Sunekos Cell is an injectable which is formulated to help correct the inflammation and under-the-skin tissue thickening that contributes to cellulite. It won’t work for severe (very pitted and hard) cellulite, but it made my ‘mild’ orange peel skin less obvious — one of the few treatments that ever has.

The treatment area is stippled with ouchy but bearable injections (you can opt for local anaesthetic). Expect small red spots or bruises for a week or so. You need two to three treatments, two to three weeks apart, with full results four weeks after the final one, lasting up to a year. Search sunekos.co.uk for clinics. Three sessions start from £850.

Blitz bingo wings: Exion Body

This is a new machine I haven’t tried but, looking at the patented technology and speaking to doctors I trust, it sounds good. ‘I love it for plumping slack, crepey skin on the arms,’ says body-sculpting specialist Dr Galyna Selezneva (drritarakus.co.uk).

This ‘skin remodelling’ is thanks to new ultrasound-assisted radiofrequency technology, increasing hyaluronic acid in the skin alongside collagen and elastin. It’s painless — the area is massaged with a handset emitting pleasant warmth for ten to 30 minutes. Results last six to 12 months.

You’ll pay from £1,250 for the minimum course of four sessions, a week or so apart. Aesthetic clinic of the year Taktouk Clinic (drwassimtaktouk.com) recommends six sessions, at £3,000. See btlaesthetics.com for clinics.

RACE YOU TO IT!

MDLondon Wave Cheeky celeb stylist Michael Douglas’s latest invention, MDLondon Wave, £125 (mdlondon.co.uk), is set to be a sell-out. It’s a do-it all styler: a lightweight, five heat settings barrel brush with retractable bristles. It heats up fast; creates body, curl and smooth lengths; and comes in three cool, muted shades (no manic Barbie colours here). Shop

MY ICON OF THE WEEK

Miley Cyrus

American singer Miley Cyrus wore make-up from Pat McGrath Labs at the Grammys this year

Pop superstar Miley Cyrus went full-on Alexis Carrington at the Grammys with make-up from Pat McGrath Labs (cultbeauty.com). She wore its Divine Bronzer in Nude Honey, £40, eyeshadow from the Mothership X Moonlit Seduction Palette, £118, and MatteTrance Lipstick in Honey Haze, £36.

HARD-WATER SHAMPOOS

Kerastase Premiere Decalcifying Repairing Shampoo (kerastase.co.uk) Filters out damaging hard-water minerals and feeds and softens brittle hair. Shop

Hello Klean Hard Water Shampoo (cultbeauty.com) Can be used daily to rid hair of dulling, discolouring hard-water chemicals and metals. Shop

Living Proof Clarifying Detox Shampoo (livingproof.co.uk) used once a week, a clever combo of non-stripping ingredients removes the heavy metal and pollutants build-up left by hard water. Shop

Aveeno Haircare Clarify and Shine Apple Cider Vinegar Blend Shampoo (boots.com) Vinegar is super-gentle, yet ace at offsetting the damage from hard water. Shop

Malibu C Hard Water Wellness Shampoo (salonlove.shop) Nourishes hair compromised by malicious minerals and brings it back to health. Shop

COSMETIC CRAVING

Fjor Hydrolytic Moisturize Fjor Hydrolytic Moisturizer, £45 (fjor.life) stands out in a sea of interchangeable lightweight hydrating serums and gel moisturisers. A clear, unscented jelly serum, it quenches intensely and long term (despite containing no oils). It’s thanks to super-hydrator glycerine, which feels slightly sticky but only for a minute. A unique enzyme in it gently exfoliates and balances the skin’s microbial population, boosting resilience, internal moisture and a perma-glow. I could use vats of the stuff. Shop