A curvy influencer has angrily called on airlines to make their plane seats bigger as she can't fit her 'big' bum in them.

Gracie Bon, 26, from Panama, shared a video of the challenges she faces every time she takes a flight as a plus-sized woman, pouting on the plane as she struggled to put on her seatbelt.

She was then seen walking through the airport on a moving walkway, glancing behind her to smile while showing off her figure.

The Panamanian Instagram model exclaimed: 'Airplanes should have bigger seats.

A curvy model has angrily called on airlines to make their plane seats bigger as she can't fit her 'big' bum in them

'So today I had a flight and even if I was flying in first class, I couldn't fit on the airplane - so this is a petition for all the airlines so big girls like me can fly.'

Gracie insists: 'It's not my fault I have an a*** this big. Please just make them bigger.'

She shared the clip on Instagram for her 4.5 million followers where it went viral with 1.3 million views and 3,500 comments.

However, not everyone agreed and viewers were quick to argue that her issue is self-inflicted after she chose to have body modification surgeries.

One user penned: 'What you need is a bigger brain,' meanwhile a second wrote: 'It's your fault. You paid for the surgeries'.

Another remarked: 'Buy two seats instead of one, clearly you've got plenty of money to afford them.'

Meanwhile, others quipped: 'Take a train' and 'Buy two seats instead of one, clearly you've got plenty of money to afford them'.

Someone else jokingly questioned: 'Who else's fault is it? No one forced you to get the surgeries'.

The clip shows the 26-year-old plus-sized woman pouting on the plane as she struggles to put on her seatbelt

Others penned: 'You get them surgeries by accident?' and 'Stop having surgery to make it bigger'.

However, some users agreed with the model, with one commenter writing: 'Agreed. I definitely need a larger seat and a seatbelt that doesn't have such a hard buckle. Could they throw in a tray that fits over big boobs?'

Another added: 'I agree! One of my cheeks is always spilling over'.

Meanwhile a third quipped: 'Let's start a rebellion! This is unjust and unfair!'.

Someone else pointed out: 'The only surgery she has had was a tummy tuck. Her hips are naturally that large'.

It's not been confirmed which surgeries the Panamanian model has undergone.

The debate about whether larger people should pay for an extra plane seat or get one for free has been dividing opinion for years.

In 2023, a plus-size influencer is doubled down on her demand that airlines scrap their 'discriminatory' policies and give overweight passengers extra seats for free, as one expert suggested it was her human right to get what she wants.

Gracie insists: 'It's not my fault I have an a*** this big. Please just make them bigger'

Jaelynn Chaney made headlines when she called for the FAA to offer 'an extra free seat, or even two or three seats depending on their size' to obese flyers.

Chaney, of Vancouver in Washington, conceded other passengers may have to foot the bill through increased fares.

In a new interview with CNN Travel, Chaney - who is a size 6XL - maintained that airline policies are 'discriminatory' and that it's unfair they have to pay more than thinner people.

The debate also comes just after an 'obese' woman who paid for an extra seat to accommodate her size revealed that a mom asked her to give up the second chair and 'squeeze into one' so that her toddler could use it - and when she refused, it lead to a major disagreement.

The self-proclaimed 'fat' woman, 34, who did not share her name, opened up about the situation on Reddit last month, while asking the internet if she was in the wrong for not sacrificing one of her seats for the youngster.

Under the subreddit Am I the A**hole?, she explained that she was flying 'across the country' to see her brother for Christmas and decided to 'book an extra seat so everyone can be more comfortable.'

She said 'everything went smoothly' until after she boarded, when a mom sitting in the same row approached her and 'told her to squeeze in to one seat so her 18-month son could fit in the other.'