However, all eyes were on her dress, which people claimed was backwards

Fani took the stand yesterday after being accused of misconduct allegations

Fani Willis has been furiously mocked on social media over accusations that she accidentally put on her dress backwards before taking the stand in court this week.

The 53-year-old Fulton County District Attorney - who has been testifying at a hearing over misconduct allegations - was brutally savaged on social media after eagle-eyed users pointed out that she had a zipper running up the front of her pink frock.

Fani, who has been accused of lying about the timeline of her 'romantic' relationship with the special prosecutor she appointed to Donald Trump's election interference case, sparked a frenzy of sartorial speculation with the look as the internet tried to figure out whether the quirky design was accidental or intentional.

Although her staggering testimony, which saw her firing back against the 'extremely offensive' claims, left people stunned, many eyes were on her 'embarrassing' ensemble error, which prompted viewers to ridicule the attorney's capabilities, with some joking that 'she can't even dress herself.'

Fani Willis has been furiously mocked on social media as people on the web accused her of wearing her dress backwards after they spotted a zipper on the front of her outfit

The 53-year-old Fulton County District Attorney - who is facing a hearing for misconduct allegations - was savaged on social media for appearing to don her pink frock backwards

Fani seemed to commit a 'mind-blowing' fashion faux pas that saw her zipper hanging at the front of her neckline

After Fani took the stand, people took to Twitter and TikTok to tease the attorney for her apparent error.

While sharing zoomed-in snaps of her ensemble, one person tweeted: 'Fani Willis wore her dress backwards and her American flag pin sideways.'

People then flooded the comments section to fire off at Fani as they questioned how she could have made such a 'humiliating' mistake.

One user added: 'Simply no way she's law school graduate.'

Another person said: 'Maybe it was the Grey Goose. Fani Willis wore her dress backward yesterday. Did anyone notice?'

'That is absolutely bananas and means she did not think she was going to testify. Someone told her she had to,' commented another user.

'Ok, apparently Fani Willis went to this court appearance with her dress on backwards. Millions of people watched this. For many women, this humiliation would be worse than disbarment,' added someone else.

'As an attorney myself, it is mind-blowing that this woman is a District Attorney. Her lack of courtroom decorum is astounding. She's an absolute embarrassment to the profession,' another person wrote.

After Fani took the stand, people took to Twitter and TikTok to tease the attorney for her apparent error

People then flooded the comments section to fire off at Frani as they questioned how she could have made such a 'humiliating' mistake

Someone else said: 'You can't be serious.'

'Hmm where are the fashion police at?' another person said.

Someone else commented: 'That's absolutely ridiculous.'

Others flooded to TikTok to share videos of Fani's dress as they continued their firestorm of outrage.

One user zoomed in on the zipper on the front of her pink outfit and said: 'Fani, is that dress on backwards? Yep, yep.'

Another said: 'Everything about District Attorney Fani is backwards, just like her dress.'

Others ran to the comments section to mock the fashion error and joked she 'can't even dress herself.'

One user added: 'Hilarious.'

Many social media users speculated that the dress Fani was wearing was the Adrianna Papell Knit Crepe Bow Sheath Dress with 3/4 Sleeves (left). But others insisted she was wearing a $42.99 VFShow dress which does indeed have a zipper in the front (right)

'I thought the same thing in another video… like why is the zipper in the front,' commented another person.

'I was wondering why the zipper was in front like that,' said another user.

Someone else commented: 'I thought her dress looked weird on her.'

Many social media users claimed the dress Fani was wearing was the Adrianna Papell Knit Crepe Bow Sheath Dress with 3/4 Sleeves, which retails for $129.

However, others insisted she was wearing a $42.99 VFShow dress, which has a zipper in the front - meaning that she would've have been wearing the dress the correct way.

However, it has not been confirmed which frock Fani was wearing.

Fani was accused in a stunning court filing of having an affair with Nathan Wade, who was paid more than $600,000 as a special prosecutor assisting her office.

Fani was accused in a stunning court filing of having an affair with Nathan Wade, who was paid more than $600,000 as a special prosecutor assisting her office

Fani is facing calls to be disqualified from the Trump case over her affair with Nathan (seen) and whether they were in a relationship when she hired him to help prosecute the ex-president

Former president Trump pointed to the allegations on Tuesday and said it meant the Georgia prosecutor was 'totally compromised' and that the case against him 'has to be dropped.'

Fani is facing calls to be disqualified from the Trump case over her affair with Nathan and whether they were in a relationship when she hired him to help prosecute the ex-president.

She took the stand after Nathan was also grilled about their sex life, asked for intimate details about their relationship and told to explain the lavish trips they took together to exotic destinations such as Belize and Aruba.

It was a remarkable moment in Trump's mountain of legal battles and threatens to upend the Georgia election interference case.