This is the amazing moment a spontaneous folk music performance broke out on a Ryanair flight from Belfast to Lanzarote with a passenger playing the fiddle and another doing an unplanned Riverdance.

Musician Sean Magee launched into a lively rendition of 'Las Vegas in the Hills of Donegal,' made famous in the 90s by folk group Goats Don't Shave.

Accompanied by fellow musicians Nathan Carter and Matthew Crampsey, the trio are currently some of the biggest names in Irish folk music.

Video taken from the flight shows fellow passengers laughing, singing and clapping along, as the plane makes its way to the Canary Islands.

And as the song was underway, a female passenger suddenly got up and began doing a Riverdance, getting into fun spirit on the plane.

The footage was recorded by Danny Walters who was jetting off for a holiday with his wife.

Musician Sean Magee launched into a lively rendition of ' Las Vegas in the Hills of Donegal'

Accompanied by fellow musicians Nathan Carter and Matthew Crampsey, the trio are currently some of the biggest names in Irish folk music

Video taken from the flight shows fellow passengers laughing, singing and clapping along, as the plane makes its way to the Canary Islands

A female passenger suddenly got up and began doing a Riverdance, getting into fun spirit on the plane

Passengers then turned to the woman dancing and began filming her

Sean, also holidaying with his wife, asked his pal to 'pass him the fiddle' midway through the flight, claims Danny.

'We got on the plane and the boys were sitting behind us,' said Danny. 'About an hour or so in, we heard someone say 'guys, give us me fiddle over!'

'Sean had paid to have an extra seat for his fiddle, so he didn't have to leave it in the hold.

'I just happened to be sitting in front - so once I saw the fiddle come out, I brought out my camera.

'Then it all broke into Las Vegas in the Hills of Donegal - everybody loved it!

'I think it really shortened the flight for us all.'

Danny even caught up with the musician during their holiday in Lanzarote - when the couple decided to stop by one of Sean's gigs on the island.

'While we were in Lanzarote, a couple of the boys from the plane got gigs, so we went down there for the craic - and they were very good!'