An Australian Taylor Swift fan has sparked a fiery debate on social media with a controversial opinion that has divided the Swiftie community.

One Melbourne resident took to X, formally known as Twitter, this week to express his views on the ticketing process for the pop superstar's concerts, which have seen phenomenal demand across the country.

After final-release tickets became available just days before her shows, the user proposed a contentious system aimed at fairness.

'Probably gonna cop so much hate for this. But my opinion is that I think you should be only able to see Taylor Swift once in Australia,' the user wrote, igniting a heated exchange among fans.

'I've seen like 10 people going again tonight after attending last night. Would give the other people that missed out a better opportunity,' he continued.

An Australian Taylor Swift fan has sparked a fiery debate on social media with a controversial theory that has divided the Swiftie community

A Melbourne resident took to X, formally known as Twitter, this week to express his views on the ticketing process for the pop superstar's concerts

Swift's decision to add two extra shows to the Australian leg of her tour did little to quell the frenzy, as over a million fans bombarded the Ticketek website, vying for a piece of the 450,000-ticket pie.

With many fans left empty handed, the sight of some attendees boasting about securing multiple show passes has only added salt to the wound.

'I agree... because I tried everything in my power to get tickets and was unsuccessful and I know some people going to all Melbourne and Sydney shows I'm actually devastated I couldn't go,' one disappointed fan replied to the user's post.

After final release tickets just days before her shows, the user proposed a contentious system aimed at fairness

'Probably gonna cop so much hate for this. But my opinion is that I think, you should be only able to see Taylor Swift once in Australia,' the user wrote, igniting a passionate debate among fans

Swift's decision to add two extra shows to the Australian leg of her tour did little to quell the frenzy, as over a million fans bombarded the Ticketek website, vying for a piece of the 450,000-ticket pie

Another echoed, 'I totally agree with you. Having tried everything I could to get tickets for my daughter, hearing stories of how people are going to every single show is disappointing and not the flex they think it is. How you police it, I don't know.'

Amidst the chorus of agreement, some stood firmly against the user's proposition.

'No. I went last night and going to Sydney, you snooze you lose,' a defiant fan stated.

Others pointed out the logistical challenges of enforcing such a restriction.

'There's no way to police it. Don't direct your frustration to other fans, blame the fact they only put on 7 shows in Australia. Nowhere near enough to meet demand,' another fan argued.