Taylor Swift has donated $100,000 to the grieving family of the Kansas City radio DJ shot dead at the victory parade for her boyfriend Travis Kelce and his team.

Lisa Lopez-Galvan, 44, was killed when two juvenile gunmen opened fire in the crowd in a 'personal dispute' that escalated. Twenty-one others were injured, including nine kids.

Taylor made two $50,000 donations to the GoFundMe page set up for Lopez-Galvan's family.

'Sending my deepest sympathies and condolences in the wake of your devastating loss. With love, Taylor Swift,' read the message accompanying the gift.

There is no sign of a donation from Kelce - who carried on his partying on Wednesday night after the shooting - or the Chiefs.

Taylor Swift performs at Melbourne Cricket Ground in Australia on Friday February 16

Taylor made two $50,000 donations to the GoFundMe page set up for Lopez-Galvan's family.

Lisa Lopez-Galvan, pictured here with her husband, died during surgery at a hospital for a gunshot wound to her abdomen

After tweeting that he was 'heartbroken' by the violence on Wednesday, Kelce decided to carry on the party while injured children were treated in hospital for gunshot wounds.

Clutching a beer, he posed for selfies with cops on his way inside the Granfalloon Bar and Grill before making his way inside.

Travis, who was too drunk to speak at the parade, decided to carry on the celebrations after the shooting with a 'scaled back' party at a local restaurant.

He stopped for a selfie with the cops who were running security at the event before making his way inside.

Travis Kelce is seen smiling with his Chiefs teammates after a shooting during the parade. He carried on with the partying on Wednesday night despite the tragedy

Kelce was spotted taking selfies with cops outside the bar while clutching a beer

The party had been arranged by the team after the Super Bowl win, but many players decided to stay at home after the tragic shooting.

Kelce was not one of them.

He carried on the celebrations with some teammates and their partners, posing with Patrick Mahomes' girlfriend Brittany in a photo obtained exclusively by DailyMail.com.

He is yet to respond to criticism of his continued celebrations.

Prosecutors are still undecided on the charges against the three suspects they have in custody.

Two are juveniles who were having a 'personal dispute', according to police yesterday.

One, who was carrying an assault rifle, was tackled by heroic fans as he tried to flee the scene.

None have been named. The local district attorney says they intend to charge all of the suspects as adults, with the judge's permission.

Swift at her Melbourne show on Friday night. She is yet to comment publicly on the shooting

Several people were seen being wheeled away in a stretcher, with at least 21 people shot in the horror parade massacre