Here, she reveals where to go in the country for every month of the year

Angela Epstein declares that Greece 'truly is a year-round destination'

Avoiding the crowds while seeing the great sites of Greece isn’t easy.

Last summer, police were even deployed at the Acropolis in Athens to help manage more than 17,000 visitors each day.

Yet, with its countless festivals, natural beauty and an array of historical monuments, you do not have to limit visits at peak periods.

This truly is a year-round destination...

JANUARY: WELLNESS IN MYSTRAS

Here's where to go in Greece for every month of the year. Mystras (pictured) is best for January

Deep in the Peloponnese, this former Byzantine capital and fortified mountain city is threaded with cobblestones, heart-stopping frescoes and the relics of ruined palaces and monasteries.

How to do it: Doubles at Euphoria Retreat hotel from £364 B&B; Athens airport is a two-and-a-half-hour drive (euphoriaretreat.com).

FEBRUARY: PARTY PATRAS

A visit to Patras, here, is recommended in February when the city hosts 'four weeks of carnival'

There are four weeks of carnival in February as Greece’s third largest city throngs with parties while street vendors dish up souvlaki.

Patras is home to the Cathedral of St Andrew, with relics of the apostle.

How to do it: Doubles from £112 B&B at The Bold Type Hotel; Athens airport is a two-and-a-half-hour drive (theboldtypehotel.com).

MARCH: QUIET IN ATHENS

Perfect planning: Visit Athens in March and you won't have to worry about the crowds

This is a great time to see the Greek capital.

On March 25, patriotic Athenians commemorate the Greek War of Independence with a grand military parade — quite a spectacle. Hike Mount Lycabettus to enjoy the blossom.

How to do it: Doubles from £382 B&B at the Dolli Hotel, with Acropolis views; fly to Athens (thedolli.com).

APRIL: HEAD TO HYDRA

The car-free island of Hydra hosts Easter celebrations and processions in April

Experience the beginning of Greece’s Easter celebrations on this car-free island.

Watch processions of the flower-draped ‘Epitafios’ (an imitation of Christ’s funeral bier), dipped into the sea to bless the water on Good Friday.

How to do it: Doubles from £215 B&B at Mandraki Beach Resort; fly to Athens and catch a 95-minute ferry from Athens’ port of Piraeus (mandrakibeachresort.com).

MAY: PERFECT IN PARGA

Late spring is a great time to visit Parga in north-western Greece

Between soaring mountains and a sweeping bay, the town of Parga in north-western Greece, is an ideal base for a late spring hiking break.

How to do it: Doubles from £120 B&B at Racconto Boutique Design Hotel; Thessaloniki airport is four hours away (racconto-hotel.com).

JUNE: CHARMING CORINTH

Take a boat trip along the Corinth Canal, pictured, in sunny June

Landmarks include Acrocorinth, ancient Corinth’s soaring acropolis.

Or enjoy a boat trip along the Corinth Canal, a geological curiosity which separates the Peloponnese from mainland Greece, stopping off at Mycenae.

How to do it: Doubles from £223 B&B at the Isla Brown hotel; Athens airport is one hour 15 minutes away (brownhotels.com).

JULY: MUSIC IN NAFPLIO

Time your trip to Nafplio to coincide with its classical festival, taking place in July

As the original capital of Greece, this medieval town teems with history. Take a boat trip to Bourtzi, the 15th-century castle. The classical Nafplio festival is in July.

How to do it: Doubles from £137 B&B at 3Sixty Hotel; Athens airport is a two-hour drive (3sixtyhotel.gr).

AUGUST: HIGH IN IOANNINA

Jet off to Ioannina in August to explore its monasteries and winding streets with craft stalls

Ioannina is a pretty, mountainous university town by Lake Pamvotis. A ten-minute boat ride from Ioannina takes you to monasteries and winding streets with craft and food stalls.

How to do it: Doubles from £138 B&B at Hotel du Lac; Prevesa airport is a 90-minute drive away (hoteldulac.gr/en).

SEPTEMBER: CRETE TREAT

The island of Crete, pictured, is recommended for the month of September

The lively harbour of Elounda feels authentically Greek. From the port, you can take a 20-minute boat ride to the island of Spinalonga, once a leper colony. You should also check out the sunken city of Olous.

How to do it: Doubles from £193 B&B at Domes Aulus Elounda; Heraklion airport is an hour’s drive away (hilton.com).

OCTOBER: THESSALONIKI

Thessaloniki's culinary scene is not to be missed. Above, zucchini flowers sold at one of its markets

Greece's second city is a buzzing, foodie heaven. Visit the archaeological museum and the Church of Saint Demetrios.

How to do it: Doubles from £124 B&B at the Teight Hotel; fly to Thessaloniki (teighthotel.gr).

NOVEMBER: SANTORINI

As the summer crowds thin out, November unveils a different side to Santorini

Enjoy this volcanic island when it's quiet. Visit Akrotiri as well as Kallistis, a hilltop village surrounded by vineyards.

How to do it: Doubles from £147 B&B at the Aqua Luxury Suites; fly into Santorini airport (aquasuites.gr).

DECEMBER: MAINALO

Visit Mount Mainalo for skiing in December. Stay at Villa Vager from £98

Mount Mainalo in the Peloponnese is one of the country’s oldest ski centres. Breathe in cool mountain air with walks along tracks, bridges and through villages.

How to do it: Doubles from £98 B&B at Villa Vager; Kalamata airport is a 90-minute drive away (hotelvager.gr).