Controversial The Block star Adrian Portelli has celebrated his 35th birthday by sharing new images of his newborn son to his 300,000 Instagram followers.

The billionaire businessman uploaded a photo on Friday showing him holding his newborn wearing a bodysuit that read 'Happy Birthday daddy I love you'.

Adrian captioned the post: 'Best Birthday Ever'.

The Block bidder opted for a simple look in a white T-shirt and grey sweat shorts.

Adrian, who is known for his high-spending and lavish lifestyle, shares his son with rarely seen girlfriend Karlie Butler.

Controversial The Block star Adrian Portelli (pictured) celebrated his 35th birthday on Friday by sharing a new image of his newborn son to his 300,000 Instagram followers

The couple have yet to make the name of their newborn public.

The high-flying property investor announced his new bundle of joy last month sharing the news to his Instagram with a gallery of adorable snaps.

One showed him tenderly cradling his newborn son.

The billionaire uploaded a photo showing him holding his newborn who wore a bodysuit that read: 'Happy Birthday daddy I love you'

Another cute snap featured a shirtless and smiling Adrian in a chair gently cradling the baby, while another captured him gazing lovingly at his child.

'Welcome to the world little man,' Adrian wrote next to the photos.

Many of Adrian's celebrity friends were quick to congratulate him on the amazing news.

The Block 2022 winners Omar and Oz both posted love heart emojis and influencer Mitch Orvall wrote: 'Congrats brother'.

Adrian told the Herald Sun he was over the moon at becoming a first time father.

'He was four days over. It's an amazing, overwhelming experience,' he said.

Adrian, who is known for his high-spending and lavish lifestyle, shares his son with girlfriend Karlie Butler

A cute snap featured a shirtless and smiling Adrian in a chair gently cradling the baby and another captured him gazing lovingly at his child

Portelli is the founder of luxury prize club LMCT+, best known for its high-profile giveaways.

He bought three properties on the 2023 series of The Block after he was accused of being a dummy bidder when he purchased the home of 2022 season winners Omar and Oz.

On top of Steph and Gian's $5million home which sold whopping $1.65million over reserve at auction, Portelli also purchased runners-up sisters Eliza and Liberty's pad for $4.3million, along with Perth couple Kyle and Leslie's home for $3.1million.