A property manager has sparked a heated debate after defending a 'nitpicking' landlord and their petty request during inspection.

Perth woman Shannon Welch said she had heard an anecdote of a landlord who had asked their tenants to clean fingerprint marks from the mirrors.

'The property manager had mentioned the fingerprints on the mirrored sliding doors and said they need to be cleaned and rectified, and the tenant was very upset by that,' she said in a TikTok video.

'It got me thinking, I think we need to educate the tenants more to understand that it's not necessarily a bad thing that they've been asked to just remove those fingerprints from the mirror doors.'

Social media users were divided with some accusing the landlord of 'nitpicking' while others took aim at the tenants for becoming upset over a simple request.

Perth woman Shannon Welch said she had heard an anecdote of a landlord who had asked their tenants to clean fingerprint marks from the mirrors

Ms Welch said the feedback provided during inspections is actually a 'positive' because it means the property manager is doing their 'job correctly'.

'One day we want you to use us as your property manager when you have an investment property,' she said.

While the business owner and property manager believes that the high attention to detail speaks volumes about the inspector's reliability, others completely disagreed.

Numerous renters and owners slammed the 'ridiculous nitpicking' of the landlord.

'Agents are the ones who need to be educated,' one person wrote.

'Fingerprints on a mirror is no reflection on if tenants are taking care of the home!'

A second added: 'As an investor I would never use someone like that. My relationship with my tenants is worth more.'

Others agreed that it was a simple enough request and defended the landlord.

'People get so pressed about being told they are dirty,' one wrote.

Social media users were divided with some accusing the landlord of 'nitpicking' while others took aim at the tenants for becoming upset over a simple request