Anyone passing the front of this unassuming could be forgiven for thinking it was a simple bungalow.

But in fact, this new property in Morpeth, Northumberland is a sprawling house across three levels which boasts a mancave, bar and music room - and it could be yours for £695,000.

Furnished like a mansion, the hidden gem has five bedrooms, three bathrooms, a decking area and three lawns.

It boasts a mancave and entertainment area complete with a bar and pool table under a vaulted glass roof overlooking the gardens. The space could also be used as a cinema room, while on the ground floor the more musically gifted can play instruments in a music room.

Anyone passing by the detached house might assume it looks like an ordinary bungalow from the outside and not give it a second look. Pictured: The outside of the house

But, on the inside, the property located in Morpeth, Northumberland is actually a sprawling home with three levels boasting things that many home-owners can only dream of. Pictured: The outside of the house

Furnished like a real mansion, the property also has a 'mancave', entertainment area, complete with bar and pool table area under a vaulted glass roof overlooking the gardens. Pictured: The pool table and bar area

Pictured: The impressive bar with blue lights and shelving for drinks

Sleek, modern glass stairs transport visitors down to the lower-level where the entertainment area and 'mancave' is found.

The 'mancave' bar features three bar stools, blue hanging lights and plenty of shelves for drinks and decorations.

A projector is pictured showing that the space is great for using as a cinema area.

On the ground floor a 'music room' is pictured on the online listing with a beautiful piano.

Listed for sale at £695,000, the hidden gem has five bedrooms, three bathrooms, a decking area and three landscaped lawns

Sleek, modern glass stairs transport visitors down to the lower-level where the entertainment area and 'mancave' is found. Pictured: The house and gardens from outside

The sprawling living room area that boasts a futuristic-looking fireplace and brick walls

The contemporary kitchen has countless cabinets and units as well as sleek granite counter tops and a solid wood breakfast bar

Listed for sale at £695,000, the hidden gem has five bedrooms, three bathrooms, a decking area and three landscaped lawns. Pictured: One of the five bedrooms

There is also a home office perfect for getting some work done while a mezzanine level has been designed for relaxing.

Meanwhile the main living room features a futuristic pyramid-shaped corner fireplace.

The contemporary kitchen has countless cabinets and units as well as sleek granite counter tops and a solid wood breakfast bar.

Outside, the property has layered lawns, a stone bridge and even a private stream.

The three bathrooms all present a clean, modern-feel and are complete with bath tubs or showers

Pictured: One of the five bedrooms, boasting enough space for a double bed

Outside, the property has layered lawns, a stone bridge and even a private stream. Pictured: The garden outside the property

Pictured: The decking area overlooking the lawns

Pictured: Stairs leading down to one of the landscaped lawns

Pictured: Outside view of the five-bedroom detached home

The three bathrooms all present a clean, modern-feel and are complete with bath tubs or showers.

Estate agents Bradley Hall said: 'This fantastic property really is a hidden gem, on approach it is unassuming yet within it is a remarkably spacious five bedroom detached home.

'The current owners have modernised and updated the interior.

'This home is a paradise for outdoor enthusiasts, with sizeable, landscaped gardens surrounding the property, providing space for family fun or relaxation with the terrace and patio areas.'