Pedro Pascal is opening up about the 'psychotic' way he learns his lines, with the help of a bizarre cypher of sorts.

The 48-year-old actor - who recently landed the role of Mr. Fantastic in Marvel's Fantastic Four remake - was taking part in a virtual roundtable for SAG-AFTRA.

Pascal was chatting with Succession stars Kieran Culkin and Matthew Macfadyen and The Morning Show star Billy Crudup, with moderator Scott Mantz.

He revealed to his fellow SAG-AFTRA Awards nominees (who are all up for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Drama Series) how he learns lines.

'I bet I could show you a psychotic example, a physical example of what I now have to do to learn my lines,' Pascal admitted, while searching for the paper.

Pedro Pascal is opening up about the 'psychotic' way he learns his lines, with the help of a bizarre cypher of sorts

He held up a piece of paper to the camera which was filled with single letters written in columns.

He held up a piece of paper to the camera which was filled with single letters written in columns.

'This is like a psycho first letter of every word,' Pascal explained, as Culkin was clearly shocked by this, while Billy Crudup tried to figure it out.

'That's what you do next to the actual text?' though Pascal said that wasn't quite the case.

'I'll take it... so you just see the bunch of letters, right? Basically, I’m the Unabomber,' Pascal joked before trying again to explain it.

'You use the first letter of each in these towers or columns, I guess, and it’s this very, very tedious way of making yourself learn the line so that you’re not making choices,' he explained.

'Like if you're in a scramble and sort of trying to learn text really quickly... it isn't even sort of artistic,' Pascal explained.

'It’s just this really technical way I’ve had to acquire because of that terrible experience of forgetting my lines,' Pascal admitted.

The actor was recently confirmed to play Reed Richards a.k.a. Mr Fantastic in Marvel's new Fantastic Four reboot.

'This is like a psycho first letter of every word,' Pascal explained, as Culkin was clearly shocked by this, while Billy Crudup tried to figure it out

'I'll take it... so you just see the bunch of letters, right? Basically, I’m the Unabomber,' Pascal joked before trying again to explain it

'This is like a psycho first letter of every word,' Pascal explained, as Culkin was clearly shocked by this, while Billy Crudup tried to figure it out.

He stars alongside Vanessa Kirby as Sue Storm a.k.a. The Invisible Girl, Joseph Quinn as Johnny Storm a.k.a. The Human Torch and Ebon Moss-Bachrach as Ben Grimm a.k.a. The Thing

He stars alongside Vanessa Kirby as Sue Storm a.k.a. The Invisible Girl, Joseph Quinn as Johnny Storm a.k.a. The Human Torch and Ebon Moss-Bachrach as Ben Grimm a.k.a. The Thing.

Pascal will also return as Joel Miller in Season 2 of HBO's The Last of Us, which debuts later this year.

He also stars in Ethan Coen and wife Tricia Cooke's new film Drive-Away Dolls, in theaters February 23.

He also has The Uninvited with Walton Goggins, Rufus Sewell and Elizabeth Reaser coming out on March 11 and Gladiator 2 arriving November 22.