All Of Us Strangers (15, 105 mins)

Verdict: Great Scott

Rating:

Andrew Scott will not hold aloft the Oscar statuette for his dazzling performance in All Of Us Strangers. Indeed, the film was overlooked entirely in this week's Academy Award nominations.

But he will hold the acclaim of everyone else, certainly if Tuesday's gala screening in London was anything to go by. The evening's presenter Edith Bowman, the former Radio 1 DJ, called the movie a masterpiece and credited him with one of the greatest displays of acting in modern times.

At the end, when she invited him back to the stage, a rhapsodic ovation lifted the roof. A passer-by, looking in, might have concluded that the smiley Irish bloke in the trendy jacket was just back from brokering peace in the Middle East.

For his lead performance in All Of Us Strangers, Andrew Scott will hold the acclaim of everyone else, certainly if Tuesday's gala screening in London was anything to go by

Andrew Scott (left, with Paul Mescal) has been widely praised for his portrayal of a lonely screenwriter who encounters the spirits of his dead parents in director Andrew Haigh's latest film

Andrew Scott (centre) stars in All Of Us Strangers as Adam, a troubled gay man who meets the spirits of his deceased parents (played by Jamie Bell and Claire Foy)

The writer and director of All Of Us Strangers (which is loosely based on a 1987 Japanese novel) is Andrew Haigh, whose marvellous 2015 film, 45 Years, might in a way be a companion piece to this. Although one focuses on a long heterosexual marriage and the other on a brief gay romance, they are both about love, loss and the fierce complexities of human relationships.

Moreover, they are both enhanced by truly immaculate acting, in 45 Years by Tom Courtenay and Charlotte Rampling, and here by Paul Mescal, Jamie Bell, Claire Foy and Scott. Especially Scott. He plays Adam, a screenwriter, who, when we first meet him in his high-rise city apartment, appears to be living a life of, at best, wistful solitude. On TV he is watching Frankie Goes To Hollywood performing The Power Of Love, a recurring motif in the film and an indication both of his sexuality and the sentimental lure of the mid-1980s, for reasons we will come to understand.

Then Adam meets a neighbour, Harry (Mescal), and in due course they become lovers. But he remains deeply affected by the deaths of his mother (Foy) and father (Bell) in a car crash, when he was 11.

Clutching a faded old photograph of their suburban home, he returns to the same house and, his memories unlocking his imagination, finds his parents still there, just as he remembers them from the 1980s.

His relationship with Harry develops, interspersed with these imaginary visits home, where he explains how his life has unfolded since he was so abruptly orphaned and tells his mother he is gay. She reacts like a 1980s mum, worried about Aids, and wondering whether he is open about it 'down the High Street, at WH Smiths'.

His dad is less surprised. As a kid, Adam could never throw a ball properly. He always knew he was a bit 'tutti-frutti'.

These encounters, 'meeting' his parents on adult terms for the first time, yet still occasionally regressing to prepubescence (even, in one scene, wearing his boyhood pyjamas), are beautifully done. Yet I surprised myself by, unlike many of those around me, remaining resolutely dry-eyed.

Paul Mescal stars as Harry in All Of Us Strangers, a neighbour of Adam (played by Andrew Scott) who soon becomes his lover

If I might get personal for a moment, my own father died when I was 14. It's an enduring regret that I never knew him except as a boy, and I still sometimes dwell on the conversations we might have had now.

As in Adam's case, these are comforting flights of fancy, not mawkish at all.

But it nevertheless stirred powerful emotions when, a couple of years ago, I reached the age he was when he died suddenly. I once had a profound conversation on the same lines with the broadcaster Jonathan Dimbleby, whose father, the mighty newsman Richard Dimbleby, passed away at 52. The age thing, too, is what seems to unlock these reveries in Adam.

So I found heaps of resonance in All Of Us Strangers, yet watched in admiration rather than adoration, tremendously engaged but not enormously moved. Why?

Could it be because I'm not gay and so much of Adam's interraction with his parents concerns his sexuality? I hope not. Whatever, it's a beguiling idea: a man and the parents he lost too young, getting to say the stuff they didn't manage first time round.

Also, All Of Us Strangers contains a final twist that I mustn't reveal but was still prompting an exchange of texts the next morning between me and the friend I saw it with.

A masterpiece? Not quite. But what a thoughtful and thought-provoking film.