The only PR that managers get is results... the way Erik ten Hag handled Marcus Rashford was a rare positive for the Man U boss - It's All Kicking Off podcast

He announced he would give the tickets to an account with a million followers

Rashford gave a task to his Twitter followers to name what jigsaw he was doing

Fans have questioned Marcus Rashford's choice of who to reward tickets to for Manchester United's Premier League clash with Fulham later this month.

The England international tasked his Twitter followers to name the jigsaw that he was doing, and that he would reward two tickets to someone who guessed correctly.

Fans correctly guessed that Rashford was tackling a 1,000 piece Lion King jigsaw at his home, and the 26-year-old decided to give the tickets to a Twitter influencer running a Man United account - who has over one million followers.

UTDTrey who was the lucky recipient, responded to Rashford tweeting that he was the 'best player in the world'.

However, others were quick to point out to Rashford the long line of messages from Trey ripping into the forward.

Marcus Rashford generously gave away tickets on social media, though other fans have pointed out the person he gave them to asked for Manchester United to sell him

Rashford asked his followers to name the jigsaw that he was doing to get two tickets

Rashford gave the tickets to fan account UTDTrey - who has a million followers on Twitter

Your browser does not support iframes.

One tweet last month urged a Saudi Pro League club to step in and sign the homegrown star.

They wrote: 'Saudi Pro League, I need you to do something for me.'

Another message read: 'We used to have players like Ronaldo, Rooney, Scholes, Beckham, Vidic, Keane, Van Nistelrooy, Van Persie.

'Now Rashford is acting big coz he knows he's our franchise player, we fell off bad man.'

Other messages included him suggesting that 'no manager is keeping Rashford' and that the forward is the problem and not Erik ten Hag.

Fans saw the humerous side of Trey being the lucky recipient of the tickets, with UtdEllis writing: 'After all the s*** you've said about him as well.

'You better not slander him ever again in your life.'

One user wrote: 'What is happening here,' while another said 'Trey, out of all the people.'

Another fan thought there was more to it, as they commented: 'Insane PR move. Just got the biggest Man Utd account in Twitter to post unlimited prop for him now.'

Other supporters questioned whether Rashford was aware of UTDTrey's past tweets against Rashford.

Fans were quick to point out Trey's past tweets ripping into the Manchester United forward

Other tweets suggested that no manager is keeping Rashford and that Man United have 'fell off bad' if Rashford is the club's franchise player

Fans saw the humerous side of UTDTrey receiving the tickets for the game with Fulham

Trey called Rashford 'the best player in the world' after discovering he would get the tickets

As a result of being selected by Rashford, they will attend Manchester United's home clash with Fulham on February 24.

The forward was recently fined £650,000 by United after he went on a 12-hour drinking binge in Belfast, before reportedly calling in sick for training.

Rashford acknowledged his mistake and responded in style with a goal during Uniterd's 4-3 victory over Wolves.

United will hope for a strong end to the season for their forward, who has netted just five times this campaign after scoring 30 goals in 56 games last term.