Speculation is continuing to grow that Fernando Alonso is inline to fill Lewis Hamilton's Formula One seat at Mercedes once he departs the team at the end of the upcoming season after his manager was pictured with Toto Wolff.

Mercedes have a surprise driver vacancy to fill after the seven-time world champion signed a deal to join Ferrari starting from 2025.

His shock decision could pave the way for Alonso to secure a stunning second return to the German garage that he previously drove for during two previous stints in his career.

Alonso's manager Flavio Briatore has now fuelled further talk the grid's oldest driver could be heading back to Mercedes after posting a picture of himself at breakfast with team chief Wolff on Monday.

The pair sat down together at Pasticceria Cova Montecarlo pastry shop in Monaco with a discussion over Alonso's future possibly a feature of the meeting.

F1 fans believe Fernando Alonso is returning to Mercedes after his manager Flavio Briatore shared a snap enjoying breakfast with Toto Wolff on Monday

Alonso currently drives for Aston Martin but is one of the names tipped to replace Lewis Hamilton at Mercedes

Hamilton is entering his final year at Mercedes after agreeing a deal to join Ferrari in 2025

Briatore and Wolff appeared to be in good spirits while they sat in private together, despite Alonso currently seated with Aston Martin for the next racing calendar and recently stating that is his current 'priority'.

The new F1 season is set to get underway with pre-season testing taking place in Bahrain on February 21 as garages prepare to show what their new liveries can do for the first time.

Supporters on social media are convinced that Alonso is set to make a stunning return to Mercedes and become George Russell's team-mate after seeing Briatore and Wolff together.

One fan post on X read: '2025 is going to be a very good season! Long but it will be more interesting since 2021.'

Another Alonso supporter posted: 'Flavio Briatore and Toto Wolff met at a cafe it's so over.'

However a critic of the 42-year-old believes he would be disruptive at Mercedes, stating: 'Bad luck for Mercedes. With so many new and promising drivers out there, hiring Alonso, a personalist and disruptive driver, despite his talent, for a Mercedes that will have to pick up the pieces. I don't think it's a good thing.'

The first race of the season gets started on Saturday, March 2 in Bahrain.