The fun police have come for the West Coast Eagles with former AFL star Kane Cornes lashing the club's decision to allow players to dress in costume for their internal trial.

In a new club tradition, the players arrived for their final pre-season hitout before competitive trials dressed as musicians, superheroes and other pop culture favourites before hitting the pitch.

Elijah Hewett and Reuben Ginbey stole the show, though, dressing as Kansa City NFL star and Super Bowl winner Travis Kelce and international pop star Taylor Swift.

While the Eagles locked comments on the images of Hewett and Ginbey dressed as Kelce and Swift, fans were quick to comment on other images and praised the club for its light-hearted approach to the pre-season.

'Travis and Taylor GOLD,' one fan commented.

'The Tay Swift and Travis Kelce combo was [fire emoji],' another replied.

'More of Taylor Swift please,' added another.

West Coast Eagles players Elijah Hewett and Reuben Ginbey dressed as NFL Super Bowl winner Travis Kelce and superstar singer Taylor Swift

The dress up day was also held last season. The players dress as their favourite fictional or non-fictional character before the hard work starts

After dismal results on the field over the last two seasons, Kane Cornes believes the West Coast Eagles should be treating their pre-season more seriously

However Cornes was not amused, with the Eagles coming off a 17th place finish in 2022 and the dreaded wooden spoon in 2023.

'I'm completely going to be on an island with this and I'm happy to be on an island on my own,' Cornes said on SEN Breakfast.

'Pull up your socks West Coast Eagles, who turned up to their internal trial all wearing the most ridiculous outfits you have ever seen.

'It's a takeoff of the NBA, it's a bit of fun, I get it, but there were players with overalls with nothing on underneath, there was players dressed as superheroes, there was suits with beanies, there were Hawaiian shirts. It was ridiculous.

'For a club that has won five games in the last two years, I want a bit more professionalism and an attitude that speaks to that.

'It's not Mad Monday, it's the first day of your season and we don't need you dressing up like superheroes and being photographs and plastered all over social media. Lets get serious.'

While Cornes may not have been amused with the light-hearted way to cap off the pre-season, half-back Jayden Hunt liked what he saw during the internal trial.

'It was a good hit-out. it was really competitive and good final prep for Freo next week,' Hunt said.

Matt Flynn of the Eagles contests the ruck during the West Coast Eagles AFL Intra Club match at Mineral Resources Park

Jayden Hunt said the club had enjoyed meaningful hitouts and were ready for their pre-season clash with Fremantle

Harley Reid enjoyed some good touches and West Coast fans will be expecting big things from their No.1 draft pick

'These last few weeks it's almost like you're itching to get into real opposition, which is a good thing, it means the boys are ready.

'We definitely took it up another level today and we're going to have to step it up a level next week against real oppo.'

All eyes will be on No.1 draft recruit Harley Reid this season and the prize recruit battled with young midfielder Campbell Chesser on opposing teams at centre bounces with showing glimpses of quality.

'(Harley) obviously does a couple of things no one else can do, which is pretty amazing stuff. Good hit-out and I'm looking forward to watching him against Freo and in the season,' Hunt said.

'You've got to sometimes take a backwards step and watch him go about it. Some of the other younger guys showed some good things, so I'm optimistic and hopefully we can build that into the season.

'(Chesser) has been working really hard. He adds that little bit different dynamic, he's super fast and explosive.

'I reckon he was really impressive today.'