Tuesday saw Ferrari unveil their brand-spanking new SF-24 as they look to finally hunt down serial winners Red Bull and secure their first constructors' championship since 2008.

Revealed in front of drivers Charles Leclerc and Carlos Sainz - although 2025 driver Lewis Hamilton's move hung like a spectre over the event at Maranello - the team claim that the redesigned car is '95 per cent' different to last year's SF-23.

The 2023 season saw the Scuderia pipped to the second place in standings by Mercedes and there is a hope around the team that the new car represents the ability to begin challenging seriously at the front of the grid.

But will it be enough to knock triple world champion Max Verstappen off the top spot?

Here, Mail Sport breaks down what exactly the team has done in their bid to add speed and chase down the all-conquering Red Bull.

Charles Leclerc (left) and Carlos Sainz will race as team-mates for the last season before Lewis Hamilton's blockbuster 2025 move

Ferrari are hopeful that their re-designed car will usher in a new era for the Italian constructor

REAR WING

Ferrari have revamped their rear wing design in a bid to increase straight-line speed, a major strength of Red Bull whose DRS system is more efficient than that of their rivals.

The goal is to generate as much downforce as possible, making the car stick to the ground so it can travel faster.

ENGINE COVER

Last year, a lot of their cooling was housed in the sidepods to create more streamlined engine cover. That has now moved away from the sidepods so they have a larger engine cover, more similar to Red Bull’s design.

HALO

A new inlet has been introduced to ensure more efficient air flow towards the rear of the car.

FRONT WING AND NOSE

The nose is shorter and more bulbous than last year — as this is the first place air hits the car, Ferrari hope this will improve airflow right at the start before it hits the front wing and goes round the tyres more efficiently.

FLOOR

Ferrari have moved their anti-intrusion cone, a safety device designed to protect drivers from side impacts, from the sidepod to the floor of the car.

This brings them in line with the rest of the teams and frees up space to produce a more effective sidepod which optimises air flow.

SIDEPODS

Ferrari have redesigned the geometry of their sidepods to a more ‘undercut’ shape, bringing them further in line with Red Bull’s successful design which most teams have attempted to copy. Sidepods are a key factor in determining aerodynamic performance.