If you are an older homeowner, you may be considering equity release as a way to benefit from the money tied up in your property.

It allows over-55s to take a tax-free lump sum from the value of their home, which they can enjoy spending once they've repaid any existing mortgage.

For those taking a lifetime mortgage, the most common type of equity release plan, there are two options - drawdown or lump sum.

The one you choose will affect how much money you can access and when. It will also impact the amount of interest owed.

With the help of specialist equity release advisor Age Partnership+, we explain the pros and cons of both plan types to help you decide.

Which to choose? Homeowners accessing cash from their property via equity release must decide between a drawdown or lump sum plan - and there are pros and cons to both

Important things to know about equity release

Repaying any existing mortgage is a condition of equity release.

Repayments are not required until the last homeowner dies or goes into long-term care, at which point the loan, plus accrued interest, is usually repaid from their estate.

However, some plans do allow optional repayments subject to certain limits which can help reduce the interest owed. Early repayment charges may apply above a set value.

What is a drawdown equity release plan?

A drawdown plan, also known as a reserve facility plan, is where the borrower does not take all the money in one go. Instead, they can take out or 'draw down' the funds as and when they need them.

The main benefit of this is that interest is not charged on money that has not yet been drawn down. They must take at least £10,000 at the beginning of the plan, but after that they can take it in increments of as little as £500, depending on the lender.

Typically, there aren't any extra fees to do this and the borrower simply has to contact the lender and tell them the amount they require.

Any money not taken at the end of the plan returns to the lender and is not included in the final amount owed.

Age Partnership+ has seen an increase in homeowners choosing this type of plan recently. In the first six months of 2022, 36 per cent of its customers chose a drawdown plan, but in the first half of 2023 that rose to 38 per cent.

Types of equity release There are two types of equity release plan. The most common is called a lifetime mortgage, which is where you borrow money secured against your property, but continue to own 100 per cent of it until you die or go into long-term care. At that point, the loan is repaid, plus accrued interest, generally from the sale of the property or funds from your estate. The second type is a home reversion plan, which is less common. This is where you sell some or all of your property, but have the right to continue to live there rent-free for the rest of your life. Equity Release will reduce the value of your estate and impact funding long-term care. This article is relevant to those considering lifetime mortgages. <!- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/money/equityrelease/sponsored/other/13073627/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

What are the pros and cons of drawdown?

The key thing to understand about drawdown plans is that the interest rate could change, depending on when the customer decides to take out money. This can be either positive or negative for the borrower, depending on what happens to rates.

If interest rates went up, customers could find themselves having to pay more interest on funds withdrawn in future than they did at the outset of the plan. But if interest rates went down, then future funds could be taken out more cheaply.

Drawdown plans can also suit those receiving means-tested benefits. Money in the reserve is not classed as belonging to the customer, so won't be counted as savings in benefit eligibility calculations until it is drawn upon.

Customers should also consider what they are likely to use the money for. Drawdown plans can provide an ongoing source of income, which could be useful if they plan to spend it on things like annual holidays, home improvements that are happening in stages or regular gifts to family for things like school fees.

The lender also reserves the right to remove or reduce a drawdown facility.

Andrew Morris, senior equity release advisor at Age Partnership+, says: 'Drawdown plans are great for people not needing all the money straight away, if they are happy to accept that the rate may be higher on future drawdowns compared to the initial rate.'

Stay in your home: Equity release can allow older homeowners to keep living in their properties, but also access some of the cash tied up within them

What is a lump sum equity release plan?

Customers on lump sum plans decide the total amount of equity they want to take from their home, and that money is in their bank account from day one.

The interest rate will be fixed at the time that they take out the plan, and they will accrue interest on their entire borrowing from the outset.

They are then free to enjoy spending the money and the lender cannot remove access to it or ask for it back.

What are the pros and cons of a lump sum?

Taking a lump sum removes any uncertainty about the interest a customer will pay on their borrowing.

The rate agreed at the outset won't change, which means they know exactly how much will be owed at the conclusion. Again, that could be positive or negative depending on the direction of interest rates.

The exception is if the customer has a plan review and decides to switch their equity release plan for a better rate.

The overarching principle remains the same no matter what plan you choose – only borrow what you need Andrew Morris, Age Partnership+

However, being able to do this will depend upon whether they qualify for the latest plan developments, the amount outstanding on their equity release plan including interest that has accrued and any potential early repayment charges that may be applicable.

Finally, once a lump sum is in your account, it is yours. Unlike a drawdown plan, the lender cannot remove the facility or reduce the amount available.

Morris says: 'Lump sum plans are great at giving customers an absolute certainty that they are going to receive the full amount they want, at a fixed interest rate, they know from the outset.'

Whatever plan they choose, Morris advises only borrowing what is necessary. 'The overarching principle remains the same no matter what plan you choose – only borrow what you need,' he says.

'It's no good having money that you have borrowed sitting in the bank earning very little interest but accruing debit interest on your home.'

Advice is required before considering equity release. It is important for anyone considering equity release to speak to a professional adviser such as those at Age Partnership+ before proceeding.

At Age Partnership+, initial advice is provided for free and without obligation. Only if your case completes would an advice fee of £1,995 be payable. Other lender and solicitor fees may apply.

Get a free guide to equity release

> If you are reading in the app use this link to request a free guide

Mail Finance Services Limited is part of the Daily Mail and General Trust plc group of companies and an appointed representative of Age Partnership Limited, 2200 Century Way, Thorpe Park, Leeds LS15 8ZB.

Company registered in England and Wales No 5265969. VAT registration number 162 9355 92. Age Partnership Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, FCA registered number 425432 and is trading as Age Partnership Plus.