Prince William is set to spend £3million building social housing to tackle homelessness in a picturesque Cornish surf town.

The Prince of Wales wants to build 24 home on land belonging to the Duchy of Cornwall in Nansledan, a suburb of Newquay, it is reported.

The properties, which will include a mix of four-bedroom houses and one-bedroom flats, could be completed as soon as next year with the royal personally overseeing the project.

If it goes well it is believed the father-of-three could consider further projects on the 130,000 acres of land he owns in the county as the Duke of Cornwall, a title he inherited when his father ascended to the throne.

The 41-year-old had previously committed to building social housing on his Duchy of Cornwall land and sources have claimed he wants to 'lead from the front' in the battle against homelessness.

Prince William has supervised plans to construct 24 homes in Cornwall, which are expected to be complete next year. Pictured: William and Kate in Newquay in 2016

The homes are to be built in the traditional Cornish style, like these built in the Nasledan development in October 2021

The Cornish surf town of Newquay (pictured), along with the rest of the county, has seen a rise in demand for social housing in recent years

A source told The Times that the Prince wants the homes to 'look and feel as homely as possible' to combat the stigma of social housing and they will follow the 'traditional Cornish seaside' style to blend in.

It is understood that the homes will be low-carbon and have slate roofs, granite lintels, solar panels and heat pumps.

Environmentally conscious like his father, the Prince of Wales has ordered for the site to be planted with an array of shrubs and flowers to encourage biodiversity.

The land, which he controls as the Duke of Cornwall, stretches 130,000-acres from Cornwall to Kent and was valued at £1billion.

And the duchy, which provides the heir to the throne with an income - last year it brought in profits of £24million - will supply the land for the project for free and cover all construction costs.

William was 11-years-old when his mother, the late Princess Diana, took him and Prince Harry to a homeless shelter and is now a patron of the Passage, the charity that ran it.

READ MORE HERE - Prince William pledges to 'end homelessness' and announces plans to build social housing on own private estate the Duchy of Cornwall Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/news/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Aged just 13, the royal told his mother: 'If I become King, I will let the homeless live in our palaces,' according to Richard Kay.

He followed in his mother's footsteps to become a patron of another charity, Centrepoint, in 2005, and spoke at an affordable housing development of 33 flats for young people funded by the group in 2022.

William is working on the project in Cornwall with local homelessness charity St Petrocs and is aiming to get those living in temporary homes in Nansledan into permanent accommodation.

The Prince hopes that landowners will follow his lead and build more social housing.

'Wraparound services' are also expected to be offered to residents, such as mental health support and employment opportunities.

As a senior royal and with the eyes of the world constantly on him, the Prince was asked what he does personally to help people sleeping rough in the interview with the newspaper last year.

'I don't tend to give money. I tend to buy them a drink, food, something like that. I find that when I'm walking around or driving past and see other people do it [give money], people don't even look at them. How many people stop and talk to somebody who is homeless? Very few of us.

'In my job, I get to meet these people, I get to hear the stories, I get to feel it, I get to see it. That for me — and I've heard from them themselves — matters an awful lot.

Sources told the outlet that William wanted to lead the project and that he is considering more projects on his land

Aged just 13, the royal told his mother: 'If I become King, I will let the homeless live in our palaces,' according to Richard Kay

The duchy, which provides the heir to the throne with an income, will supply the land for the project for free and cover all construction costs

'They've become invisible. It's really important that society acknowledges that there is somebody there and they're having a tough time. It shouldn't happen but it's right there. You can't ignore it.'

Last June, the heir launched an ambitious £3million programme to 'end' homelessness within five years called 'Homewards'.

He personally funded, through his Royal Foundation's charitable arm, six projects in flagship locations across the UK.

It has brought together local stakeholders, experts and even house builders to eradicate rough sleeping, 'sofa surfing' and temporary hostels and bring about substantive change.

EXCLUSIVE READ MORE HERE - Inside the UK's 'blandest' towns: Cornish seaside residents welcome title in the hope it drives away second home owners Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/news/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_2 - ->

Experts from Homewards will also work on the Nansledan project, while it will also see involvement from St Petrocs, a Cornwall charity that works to end homelessness in the county.

A spokesperson for Kensington Palace told The Times: 'The prince is delighted that the duchy is using the Homewards approach as inspiration for building this innovative housing project, partnering with St Petrocs to find ways of ultimately getting people into permanent housing.

'It is exactly what he wants to do and for him it's another example that if we can show people here and in other countries what is possible, maybe others will follow our lead. The prince hopes that every town and city in the country will take inspiration from this project.'

Henry Meacock, chief executive of St Petrocs, said: 'Where Prince William is showing great leadership is in wanting change in the approach to prevention and early intervention around homelessness.

'We have a unique opportunity in Nasledan with a socially-minded landowner who has a long-term development mindset, demonstrating to the private sector that you can still be commercial and make a profit, but also invest in the local community.'

Cornwall has a well-publicised housing shortage, with residents of the south eastern county complaining about the lack of properties available.

The waiting list for social housing in the county is more than 22,000 households in the queue - a figure that has more than doubled since the pandemic.

Locals have long complained about second home owners snapping up properties in popular tourist destinations and landlords turning homes into holiday rentals, pricing residents out of the market in the process.