I will miss not playing with Stuart this week because we have developed a good relationship on and off the field as England team-mates.

It's one that has come into its own in the last five years. Matt Prior was always Stuart's big mate and Graeme Swann mine but once they'd gone we were two of the team's older guys and become closer.

We are quite similar characters. We can both be grumpy and we desperately want to win. What we have really figured out together is a way to make our partnership work so that we can help the team.

James Anderson will miss not playing with Stuart Broad after building a good relationship

The pair are similar characters - they can both be grumpy and desperately want to win

Our main aim, every time we walk across that white line, is to try to get the team into a position where we can win a game of cricket.

That's the only thing we think about: what can we do individually and as a pair to affect the game? We constantly talk about that out there together and then among the bowling group as a whole.

There wasn't much unity in the bowling group when we started so we've both made a point of trying to make sure that is now the case and we help any new lads coming into the team.

We feel it's our duty to help them settle, relax and enjoy themselves so they can show off their skills.

It's quite an achievement to reach 100 Test caps — maybe more so for a fast bowler than a batsman.

You tend to go through more ups and downs in your career because you have the added injuries to contend with as well as lack of form, and that's why there aren't many bowlers who make it to 100.

Anderson and Broad feel it is their duty to help the new lads settle, relax and enjoy themselves

Broad, aged five, has cricket in the blood thanks to father Chris, who opened for England

Test cricket is hard on the body and Stuart, now 30, has to take credit for looking after himself. Also, skills-wise he has worked really well at his game.

His bowling has come under scrutiny on several occasions. There was a lot of talk about his role in the team: was he an enforcer, a pitch-up bowler, a swing bowler?

But if you had to sum him up he is all of them and more because to prosper as a bowler in Test cricket you have to be able to deliver about five different roles.

Whether people were telling him to do this or that — be the enforcer bowling bouncers in the middle of the innings, for example, or if he was searching for a particular niche for himself — he always had so many other strings to his bow.

It just took time for them all to come out.

Look at him now and he is almost the complete bowler. He might not have as much pace as he used to but he can still bowl late-80mph.

Broad is almost the complete bowler; despite being 30 years old he can still bowl late-80mph

He can pitch the ball up and swing it, nip it off the seam, he has a good bouncer, he's big at reverse swing and has a great leg-cutter that causes a lot of trouble, especially on the subcontinent.

Taking the new ball as senior bowler has simplified things for him. There is no need to define him. He is another leader in our attack.

There's no need for instructions like 'you've got to pitch it up, you've got to bowl a touch fuller because you're tall'.

Now his responsibility is to think for himself, look after the other bowlers and be there to be called upon when needed — to bowl in different situations in varying conditions. Versatility becomes easier with experience.

Anderson does not believe Broad's 8-15 at Trent Bridge was his best spell

Broad was sensational against New Zealand at Lord's in 2013, taking seven wickets in 11 overs

People will always talk about it but I don't think his eight for 15 in the 2015 Ashes was particularly his best spell.

It was in helpful conditions, against not the strongest Australian team we've played against over the years, so in comparison to others in his career it wouldn't be the one I'd rate top.

Yes, it looked great, but I think he has bowled much better. The two that stand out for me are in the fourth innings of the New Zealand Test at Lord's in 2013, when we bowled them out for 68 and he got seven-for 44 — it was a brutal spell really, proper amazing cricket during which he went for four an over but looked threatening every ball — and in the 2009 Ashes at The Oval when the game was going nowhere against a strong Australia.

Broad was brilliant in the 2009 Ashes at The Oval when the game was going nowhere

That was the best of the lot. It was a crucial Test match, on a flat wicket and Australia had started well. He got Shane Watson lbw in his first over to start it all off and then Ricky Ponting chopped on.

Suddenly wickets started to tumble, he got on this roll and while I have been on a field with him that's definitely the best spell I've seen him bowl.

He took only five on that occasion but he completely changed the course of the game.