She revealed how she survived the night in a video for her YouTube followers

Spending one night in Idaho, she was faced with sub-zero temperatures

A young woman named Rosa has been living out of her car since 2017

A young woman who lives out of her car documented the overnight conditions in sub-zero temperatures during a wintry night in Idaho, with both wind-chill and avalanche warnings in effect.

Rosa, originally from Philadelphia, has been on the road since 2017, celebrating the six-year anniversary of moving into her car back in September 2023.

This January, she wound up in Idaho in search of local hot springs, and found herself facing a night in her vehicle with temperatures as low as -33 F.

Hunkering down in her car, she captured the bone-chilling experience on camera and shared it to YouTube.

A young woman named Rosa revealed how she survived the night in her car in Idaho, with temperatures plunging to double-digits below zero

For dinner, Rosa heated up a pot of chili over an open flame in the back of her car

She gobbled down the chili with tortilla chips while in her car

Rosa then demonstrated how she doubled-up on sleeping bags to stay warm

She topped off her sleeping bag cocoon with an enormous blanket

Rosa, who hails from Philadelphia, has been living out of her car and road-tripping around the United States since 2017

After buying groceries, Rosa prepared to hunker down for the night, parking her car at a slightly higher elevation given the threat of an avalanche.

For dinner, she heated up a can of chili over an open flame in the back of her car, then gobbling down the chili with tortilla chips.

'I know the low tonight is around -25, but with the wind-chill, they're saying it could go as low as -40. But I'm in my car, so the wind-chill should not affect me. But if I tried to cook outside, it definitely would!' she reasoned.

She then bundled up, putting a sleeping back inside of a second sleeping bag, and covering herself with a massive blanket.

'Another thing I do when it is going to be really cold, specifically below zero, for the entire night, I do wake up throughout the night, and turn my car on, and let it heat up, just so that everything doesn't have a chance to freeze… just because it can be really hard on your engine and the fluids and everything when it is this cold,' she explained.

'So I will be waking up in a few hours to turn my car on and just make sure everything's okay. But, in the meantime, I am going to bed. Goodnight!'

At 2:30 a.m., Rosa woke up for the first time to turn on her car, noting that the dashboard registered an outside temperature of -26 F.

At 6 a.m., she woke up again - this time, the outdoor temperature reading was a nippy -33 F.

'Oh my god, what the f**k,' she exclaimed.

By 6 a.m., the temperature had dropped to a bone-chilling -33 F

In the morning, Rosa discovered her contact lenses had frozen solid

Her leftover coffee had also become a solid block of ice

On daybreak, Rosa officially woke up for the day - immediately noticing that 'everything' in her car was frozen solid.

'I have to defrost my contacts,' she realized, holding her contact case, the liquid inside frozen solid.

Her leftover Starbucks coffee had also turned into a block of ice.

'So much for saving my coffee for today!' she said with a chuckle.

Despite the frigid temperatures, Rosa was still determined to make it to nearby hot springs.

Rosa finally found a made it to a hot springs the next day, switching locations after she determined it was too cold around the first one she'd wanted to visit

She spent the afternoon soaking in the naturally heated water, surrounded by the Idaho wilderness

'When it comes to snow and winter, I guess you kind of do have to get used to changing your plans... And that's part of the fun of it, right?' she said

But, shortly after getting there, she quickly realized: 'I think I'm coming to the conclusion that it's just a little bit too cold for these hot springs.'

'The thing is, I'm not concerned about getting in - obviously the hot springs are hot enough; I'm concerned about having to get out,' she explained.

'Breathing kind of hurts,' she admitted while making her way back to her car.

She ultimately drove to another one two hours away, and enjoyed an afternoon in a naturally heated outdoor hot tub, surrounded by ice and snow in the Idaho wilderness.

'When it comes to snow and winter, I guess you kind of do have to get used to changing your plans,' she said. 'And that's part of the fun of it, right?'