Adam Sandler put on a hilarious show when he reunited with his regular costar Jennifer Aniston at the 2024 People's Choice Awards on Sunday.

The 57-year-old comedian and actor had everyone in Santa Monica's Barker Hangar in stitches after Aniston, 55, presented him with the People's Icon Award, but he acted as if he thought he had just been named People Magazine's Sexiest Man Alive.

The Uncut Gems star, who hit the red carpet earlier in the evening with his wife Jackie Sandler, joked that it was 'about freaking time' that he be recognized for his physical attractiveness.

He said at the start of his speech that when his agent called him while he was driving to tell him he would be honored with the People's Icon Award, he misheard him and thought he was People's Sexiest Man Alive, so he decided to just read the acceptance speech he originally wrote for the wrong honor.

Meanwhile, Jennifer stood to his side in her little black off-the-shoulder dress as she watched the comic display.

Adam Sandler, 57, joked that he thought he was named People's Sexiest Man Alive when his longtime friend Jennifer Aniston, 55, presented him with the People's Icon Award at the 2024 People's Choice Awards on Sunday in Santa Monica

Meanwhile, Jennifer stood to his side in her little black off-the-shoulder dress as she watched the comic display

She showcased her toned legs in the item, which had a ragged skirt hem and appeared to be wrinkled, as she took to the stage to introduce the former Saturday Night Live star

She showcased her toned legs in the item, which had a ragged skirt hem and appeared to be wrinkled, as she took to the stage to introduce the former Saturday Night Live star.

She wore her blond hair with a side part, and her shoulder-length locks were slightly flipped up at the bottom.

Jennifer called Adam her 'very good friend' and 'brother from another mother,' and she praised him as 'an extraordinary father, husband, and one of the most loyal friends you could ever, ever have.'

She ran through some of his biggest films, while noting that she had starred with him in a few of them.

The two comic stars first costarred in the 2011 romantic comedy Just Go With It, in which Adam played a single plastic surgeon who pretends to be in an unhappy marriage to hit on women, before he begs his friend (Aniston) to stand in as he wife to make the illusion real.

They reunited in 2019 for his Netflix comedy Murder Mystery, followed by a sequel released last year.

After he took to the stage, Adam explained the snafu and decided to stick with what he had prepared.

'So anyway, I wrote a speech for that, and I don't have one prepared for the icon thing, but I'm going to do the speech that I wrote,' he said.

People's Choice Awards 2024 Winners At a Glance

Music Male artist of the year: Jung Kook (WINNER) Female artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Male country artist of the year: Jelly Roll (WINNER) Female country artist of the year: Lainey Wilson (WINNER) Male Latin artist of the year: Bad Bunny (WINNER) Female Latin artist of the year: Shakira (WINNER) Pop artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Hip-hop artist of the year: Nicki Minaj (WINNER) R&B artist of the year: Beyoncé (WINNER) New artist of the year: Ice Spice (WINNER) Group/duo of the year: Stray Kids (WINNER) Song of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, “Vampire” (WINNER) Album of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, Guts (WINNER) Collaboration song of the year: Nicki Minaj & Ice Spice with Aqua, “Barbie World” (WINNER) Concert tour of the year: Taylor Swift, The Eras Tour (WINNER) Movies Movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Action movie of the year: The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Drama movie of the year: Oppenheimer (WINNER) Male movie star of the year: Ryan Gosling, Barbie (WINNER) Female movie star of the year: Margot Robbie, Barbie (WINNER) Margot Robbie is a leading contender for female movie star of the year for Barbie Action movie star of the year: Rachel Zegler, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie star of the year: Jennifer Lawrence, No Hard Feelings (WINNER) Drama movie star of the year Jenna Ortega, Scream VI (WINNER) Movie performance of the year America Ferrera, Barbie (WINNER) TV Show of the year: Grey’s Anatomy (WINNER) Comedy show of the year: Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Drama show of the year: The Last of Us (WINNER) Sci-fi/fantasy show of the year: Loki (WINNER) Reality show of the year: The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition show of the year: The Voice (WINNER) Bingeworthy show of the year: The Summer I Turned Pretty (WINNER) Male TV star of the year: Pedro Pascal, The Last of Us (WINNER) Female TV star of the year: Selena Gomez, Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Comedy TV star of the year: Jeremy Allen White, The Bear (WINNER) Drama TV star of the year: Jennifer Aniston, The Morning Show (WINNER) TV performance of the year Billie Eilish, Swarm (WINNER) Reality TV star of the year Khloé Kardashian, The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition contestant of the year Ariana Madix, Dancing with the Stars (WINNER) Daytime talk show of the year The Kelly Clarkson Show (WINNER) Nighttime talk show of the year The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon (WINNER) Host of the year Jimmy Fallon, That’s My Jam (WINNER) Pop Culture Social celebrity of the year Taylor Swift (WINNER) Comedy act of the year Chris Rock, Selective Outrage (WINNER) Athlete of the year Travis Kelce (WINNER) Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

She wore her blond hair with a side part, and her shoulder-length locks were slightly flipped up at the bottom

Her dress featured a cutout over her back

Jennifer called Adam her 'very good friend' and 'brother from another mother,' and she praised him as 'an extraordinary father, husband, and one of the most loyal friends you could ever, ever have'

They starred together in 2011's Just Go With It, followed by 2019's Murder Mystery and its 2023 sequel

'My name is Adam Sandler and I am the sexiest man alive, can I get a hell yeah?' he continued to cheers from the audience.

'To the People Magazine’s academy members of hotness and sexual attractiveness I would like to say thank you for recognizing me as the man who made our entire country the horniest this year and was by far the most-talked-about person in the bedroom by couples or throuples during fantasy role plays and sloppy time. Can I get another hell yeah?' he joked.

'I am trying to be gracious, People Magazine, but I have to admit three words keep popping into my head right now: "It's about freaking time!"' he shouted. 'For decades, Adam Sandler has been waiting patiently on the sexy bench.'

He had the audience cracking up as he talked about 'fantasy role play sloppy time' and his 'finger-licking desirability'.

'To the People Magazine's Academy of Hotness and Sexual Attractiveness, I would like to say thank you for recognizing me as the man who made our entire country the horniest this year,' he said.

He also called himself 'the most talked about person in the bedroom by couples, throuples or fantasy role play sloppy time'.

To the guffaws of the audience, he said he had been 'waiting patiently on the sexy bench with his legs wide open, radiating sensuality, finger-licking desirability and a slight hint of man bulge, tastefully displayed for his, hers or their pleasure.'

Sandler then said that after accepting the award, he will 'proudly' place the trophy beside his bed.

After he took to the stage, Adam explained the snafu and decided to stick with what he had prepared. 'So anyway, I wrote a speech for that, and I don't have one prepared for the icon thing, but I'm going to do the speech that I wrote,' he said.

'Thank you for recognizing me as the man who made our entire country the horniest this year and was by far the most-talked-about person in the bedroom by couples or throuples during fantasy role plays and sloppy time,' he joked

It will sit 'where it will witness many feats of romantic gymnastic performed gently on my fine as hell wife', he said as his wife laughed in the audience.

'It will witness me pulling off the regular style, the weird noises style and of course, my specialty, the sorry-about-that, get-you-next-time style,' he continued.

The comedian then referenced his affinity for baggy clothes and joked that he hides 'pure perfection' underneath his 'XX loose-fitting leisure wear'.

He listed 'the highlights' and said: 'My abs — don't have any. My hip bones — under there somewhere. My belly button — lost that thing years ago.

'My nipples — one pointing east, the other pointing south... and a third pointing at anything that would dare to look at it,' he continued. 'Lastly, my pee-pee. On a Pinocchio scale, it is six to 12 lies long — depending on wind chill or humidity.'

Finally, he concluded his speech by sharing some wisdom to 'the ugly folk out there'.

The Uncut Gems star hit the red carpet earlier in the evening with his wife Jackie Sandler

His advice was to 'embrace your chubbiness, lean into your goofiness and start hanging out with David Spade and Rob Schneider, so you can look handsomer and three feet taller than you really are.'

He ended off his speech by getting serious and thanking all of his supporters — including his daughters, who he called his 'best friends', and his 'partner for life' Jackie.

Sandler has long been a box-office favorite and a hit with comedy fans, but he has also starred in several critically acclaimed films and even modern classics, including Funny People and Punch Drunk Love.

He scored some of the best reviews of his career for starring with Ben Stiller and Dustin Hoffman in The Meyerowitz Stories (New And Selected), and he was universally acclaimed in the tense thriller Uncut Gems.

In 2018, he returned to stand-up specials with 100% Fresh, which was fitting a hit with audiences and critics.

Sandler arrived to the show in a tasteful striped navy blue suit with a matching patterned tie.

He kept an arm around his wife Jackie, who looked gorgeous in a little black dress with a rippling skirt.

Sandler arrived to the show in a tasteful striped navy blue suit with a matching patterned tie

He kept an arm around his wife Jackie, who looked gorgeous in a little black dress with a rippling skirt. She complemented it with black tights and matching heels, and she styled her brunette hair in thick curls that cascaded dramatically down her shoulders

She complemented it with black tights and matching heels, and she styled her brunette hair in thick curls that cascaded dramatically down her shoulders.

Barbie and Oppenheimer (AKA 'Barbenheimer') have ruled this awards season, and tonight's show is no exception, as they earned the most nods in the movie categories.

Barbie, which stars Margot Robbie and Ryan Reynolds, is the top nominee with nine nominations, including individual nods for its two leading stars.

Meanwhile, the Christopher Nolan–directed Oppenheimer follows behind with six nominations, including recognitions for Cillian Murphy and Florence Pugh.

Two weeks after her record breaking run at the Grammy Awards, Taylor Swift leads all musicians with five nominations.

She was nominated for a range of categories including for her songs, social media presence and even her The Eras Tour concert film, which was a massive global hit at the box office.

Taylor was in interesting company, as rapper Nicki Minaj and country musicians Luke Combs and Morgan Wallen also earned five nods each.

When it comes to television, Only Murders In The Building earned the most nominations, including recognitions for Selena Gomez, Meryl Streep and Steve Martin.

The reality show of the year category will be one to watch, as Vanderpump Rules will be the favorite coming off the Scandoval storyline, and it will be facing heavy competition from other nominees, including Hulu's The Kardashians.

The event will be hosted by Marvel Cinematic Universe star Simu Liu, who is best known for his roles in the sitcom Kim’s Convenience, as well as in Marvel’s Shang-Chi And The Legend Of The Ten Rings.

He also portrayed one of the several Kens in the aforementioned $1.4billion blockbuster Barbie.

As hosting during award season has been a major talking point, the 34-year-old Chinese–Canadian actor told USA Today: 'It’s not about slandering anyone.

Barbie and Oppenheimer have ruled awards season, and tonight's show is no exception, as they earned the most nods in the movie categories. The Christopher Nolan–directed Oppenheimer has six nominations, including nods for Cillian Murphy and Florence Pugh

Two weeks after her record breaking run at the Grammy Awards Taylor Swift leads all musicians wife five nominations; she is pictured in March 2023

When it comes to television Only Murders In The Building earned the most nominations including recognitions for Selena Gomez, Meryl Streep (pictured) and Steve Martin

The event will be hosted by Marvel Cinematic Universe star Simu Liu (pictured in January) who is best known for his roles in sitcom Kim’s Convenience as well as in Marvel’s Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings

'It’s not about getting the most offensive joke that you can possibly get away with. It’s not about being the guy that’s cutting other people down.'

The event will also see major presenters including musicians Victoria Monet and Kane Brown.

Kylie Minogue, Lainey Wilson and Lenny Kravitz are also set to perform on the telecast.

NBC and E! will air a two-hour live telecast of the 2024 People’s Choice Awards ceremony on on Sunday, February 18, at 8 p.m. ET. The show can also be streamed on Peacock.