More misery was piled on Bayern Munich and Thomas Tuchel as the German giants lost their third game in a row after being beaten 3-2 by VFL Bochum.

Bayern suffered a damaging 3-0 defeat by Bundesliga title rivals Bayer Leverkusen last week, before they also lost to Lazio 1-0 in the first leg of their Champions League last-16 tie on Wednesday.

They were desperate to bounce back ahead of their trip to Bochum, who were one place clear of the relegation zone prior to kick off.

But, after another disastrous performance Bayern now sit eight points behind Leverkusen, with their Bundesliga title hopes left hanging by a thread.

Bayern had started the clash brightly, with Jamal Musiala putting his side 1-0 up within 14 minutes as he drilled in a composed finish from a tight angle.

Bayern Munich lost their third successive game as they were beaten 3-2 by Bochum

Bayern's title hopes are hanging by a thread as they sit eight points behind Bayer Leverkusen

The defeat also heaps the pressure on Thomas Tuchel, with Bayern in danger of missing out on the Bundesliga title for the first time since 2011-12, having won it for 11 consecutive seasons

Your browser does not support iframes.

However, Japan star Takuma Asano equalised, with Keven Schlotterbeck then putting the hosts ahead on the stroke of half time.

READ MORE: Bayern Munich defender Dayot Upamecano is sent off after conceding a penalty in Champions League defeat to Lazio with Ciro Immobile scoring from the spot Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sport/football/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Things went from bad to worse for Bayern, with Dayot Upamecano - who was sent off in midweek against Lazio - dismissed again after picking up two yellow cards, with his second booking leading to a penalty after he elbowed an opponent in the box.

Kevin Stoger looked to have confirmed the victory from the spot, although Manuel Neuer got a hand to his effort but couldn't prevent it from going in.

Harry Kane pulled one back in added time to give his side hope, before the England captain missed a huge chance at the death, with the 30-year-old guilty of being wasteful in front of goal during the clash.

The defeat came despite Bayern having 70 per cent of possession, and it also follows Leverkusen's 2-1 victory over FC Heidenheim on Saturday.

It all means Xabi Alonso's side - who remain unbeaten in the league this season - are eight points clear of Bayern with 12 games to go, and the German giants are now in danger of missing out on the Bundesliga title for the first time since 2011-12, having won it for 11 consecutive seasons.

The game was also marred by a lengthy 15-minute delay in the first half, with fans throwing tennis balls onto the pitch in protest at planned foreign investment in the Bundesliga, forcing the players off the pitch and down the tunnel.

Dayot Upamecano was sent off for the second successive game and conceded a late penalty

It was a memorable performance and result for Bochum as they caused a huge shock

The game was delayed as fans protested at planned foreign investment in the Bundesliga

Several other matches have been delayed in recent weeks due to protests - including nearly every Bundesliga game across the weekend - after German clubs approved a controversial proposal to sell a stake of future TV revenue to a private equity investor back in December.

Bayern return to action next Saturday evening when they host RB Leipzig in a clash that has almost become a must-win both for Tuchel and the club's faltering title hopes.