This living room addition certainly takes luxury living to new heights.

American socialite Jackie Siegel, who is better known as the Queen of Versailles after featuring in a 2012 documentary of the same name, reveals in her most watched TikTok how she had a private jet fuselage installed in her home.

In the clip, which has been viewed more than 2.3 million times, the 57-year-old explains that the plane setup makes for the perfect place to dine on caviar and sip champagne.

She tells viewers, while wearing a little black dress and a glittering necklace: 'Have you ever had one of those days where you're in the mood for caviar, but you feel like, "Oh my gosh, I should be on a private jet eating caviar but I don't want to leave my home?''

American socialite Jackie Siegel, who is better known as the Queen of Versailles, reveals in her most-watched TikTok how she had a private jet fuselage installed in her home

In the clip, which has been viewed more than 2.3 million times, the 57-year-old explains that the plane setup makes for the perfect place to dine on caviar and sip champagne

For viewers who have experienced these thoughts, Jackie says she has just the 'solution for that.'

Moving over to the unusual living room feature she says: 'I got the private jet experience here in my living room so I can enjoy my caviar first class exclusively here, in the comfort of my own home.'

Giving viewers a step-by-step guide on how best to eat caviar, she explains: 'I'm gonna give a little caviar experience.

'You get a little pancake, a little crème fraiche. You can get this in the dairy department at your gourmet [stores]. And, of course, a little caviar.'

Jackie recommends finishing the stately stack with 'a little onion and, of course, a little champagne on the side.'

After posting the video, she was slammed by viewers, with many calling her out for being 'out of touch' with the real world.

One commenter wrote: 'Jackie I had to move back in with my mom because I can barely afford a car payment and insurance.'

Another unimpressed viewer said: 'No, no I haven't. Ever had one of those days you wanted to support a small business so they can pay their rent?'

She says: 'I got the private jet experience here in my living room so I can enjoy my caviar first class exclusively here, in the comfort of my own home'

Jackie recommends finishing the stately stack off with 'a little onion and, of course, a little champagne on the side'

The American socialite featured in a 2012 documentary called the Queen Of Versailles, a nod to the mansion built by her husband, David, and herself in Windermere, Florida

Jackie, pictured with her family, says she'd 'like to travel private and eat caviar every day,' but her husband doesn't agree

In response to the backlash, Jackie explained in a follow-up video that she had the plane installed in her home as part of a party she was hosting in memory of her daughter Victoria, who passed away in 2015 following a drug overdose.

The footage shows movers installing the plane in Jackie's sprawling mansion and the accompanying caption explains that her first TikTok was done as a bit of fun and not meant seriously.

The mother-of-seven said: 'I have a TikTok account but don't promote it much, the kids and I mainly use it for fun videos.

'This week I posted about a private jet installation we used for an event. I thought it was a silly video, but I think people took it the wrong way. Although I'd like to travel private and eat caviar every day, David doesn't agree! LOL.

'What bothers me most is that I think some people thought I was making fun of them, which couldn't be further from the truth.

'Growing up in Binghamton, my family didn't have much, and I worked my entire life. I never imagined that I'd have the life I have now and I am so grateful for it, and never take it for granted.

'I am the luckiest woman in the world because of my husband, kids, and parents. My heart breaks for those struggling right now, and David and I try to help as much as possible. I would never make light of people's struggles, please know that.

'Anytime I do an event for Victoria, it can bring up a lot of emotions for me, and they made the day lighter for me.'

While the family continues to mourn the loss of their daughter, they have dedicated the rest of their lives to raising awareness on the opioid epidemic.

The couple also said they're planning on welcoming guests from around the world in the future for a grand-opening fundraiser at their Florida mansion in honor of Victoria, when construction is complete.

The home, modeled after the Palace of Versailles in France, is valued at more than $100 million, according to Jackie.

They started the project in 2004 but it was stalled after David's business was hit by the failing economy. It was previously expected to be completed by 2016.

The unfinished home sits on 10 acres of lakefront property and will feature 11 kitchens, 30 bathrooms, 30-car garage, two-lane bowling alley, indoor roller-skating rink, three indoor pools, two outdoor pools, video arcade, ballroom, two-story movie theater modeled off the Paris Opera House, fitness center with 10,000-square-foot spa, yoga studios, 20,000-bottle wine cellar and an exotic fish aquarium.

Two tennis courts, a baseball diamond and formal garden will be included on the grounds.

Jackie's husband David, 88, is the billionaire founder of the timeshare company Westgate Resorts.

He has an empire of 28 resorts across the country, and also owns the Westgate Las Vegas Resort and Casino, the Cocoa Beach Pier and the Orlando Predators Arena League Football team.