The parents of a 12-year-old boy who was tragically run over and killed by a car said they have forgiven the driver who was behind the wheel.

Kye Duclos was walking home from school when he was run down at the intersection of Police Road and Hansworth Street in Mulgrave, Melbourne, at 4.30pm on Friday.

His father Michael Duclos opened up on the moment he raced down to the scene with his wife and and saw the distraught driver.

'I gave them the briefest, 'I'm sorry this has happened'. It's not that person's fault,' he told 9News.

Mr Duclos revealed his son had taken a selfie moments before he was mowed down by the car.

Kye Duclos (pictured) was walking home from school when he was run down at the intersection of Police Road and Hansworth Street in Mulgrave, just after 4.30pm.

Kye's parents were called to the scene where an off-duty mobile intensive care ambulance paramedic desperately tried to save their son.

He described Kye as a 'ridiculously amazing kid' and his 'best mate'.

'It's the most devastating thing in the world to have happened,' he said.

Kye's parents were called to the scene where an off-duty mobile intensive care ambulance paramedic desperately tried to save their son.

'I've lost my boy. I've lost the best mate a father could have ever wanted,' Mr Duclos said.

He revealed in a Facebook post his son had been crossing the street during heavy traffic and that he was unable to see cars coming down one of the lanes.

'He crossed without the green pedestrian light and was unfortunately hit by a car,' he wrote.

'An off duty MICA paramedic was on the scene from the start and was able to perform CPR and keep him alive as he went into cardiac arrest.'

The father said there were 'multiple' ambulances working on his son.

'Both Jess, myself and Isla were able to attend the scene in time and watch as the ambos worked on him and give him a kiss,' he said.

The father said his son had scans to assess the extent of his head injuries after the child was airlifted to the Royal Children's Hospital.

Kye went into cardiac arrest before dying in his parents' arms.

Kye's father (pictured) shared his heartbreak on Facebook, revealing his son had been crossing during traffic and was unable to see the 'second lane'

Kye (pictured) went into cardiac arrest before dying in his parents' arms after being airlifted to the Royal Children's Hospital

A GoFundMe has been launched by the 12-year-old's aunts.

The fundraising page said the family 'suffered a tragic loss' and Kye was their 'golden child.'

'His parents Michael and Jessie and his sister Isla's life will never be the same,' they wrote.

'To help them navigate the next few months we have set up a go fund me page to take away the financial burden and allow them to plan a funeral and take the time they need to heal and grieve.'

Mr Duclos expressed his thanks for everyone who tried to help his son.

'The love everyone had for our little man was overwhelming to see,' he wrote.

'Jess and I's wishes are to be left to our grieving for as long as it takes. We love and appreciate you all but we need to take our time to come to terms with what happened.

'Our world will never be the same, we will forever miss our beautiful boy.'

Kye's parents want to honour their son, who loved fishing and the outdoors, with a service in the place he loved the most.

The driver involved has cooperated with police and no charges have been laid.