Kristen Stewart's fiancee Dylan Meyer posted a loved-up Valentine's Day tribute to her partner on Instagram.

Meyer, a screenwriter, praised her '#1 crush' as she shared a slew of sweet snaps with Kristen, 33.

'Happy valentines to my #1 crush, the hottest cat mom in the game. I am just so, so into you,' she captioned the post.

The Instagram post kicked off with a cute image of the couple sharing a smooch by the beach, followed by a sillier snap of the duo.

Kristen - who recently did a provocative shoot for Rolling Stone - bit Dylan's hand as the screenwriter playfully stuck out her tongue.

Kristen Stewart's fiancee Dylan Meyer posted a loved-up Valentine's Day tribute to her future spouse on Instagram

In the following shot, Kristen cuddled their fluffy white cat.

The final post showed the couple lovingly gazing at one another as they took a breather together at sunset.

Kristen has been dating Dylan since 2019 and she revealed their engagement in 2021.

The actress recently dished about their upcoming nuptials to Rolling Stone, telling the outlet: 'We don’t have it in us to have a big wedding.'

'We’re probably just going to do it soon. We just are busy trying to make movies because they’re our babies.'

She also admitted that she wants to start a family with her longtime partner 'sometime soon.'

'I don’t know what my family’s going to look like, but there’s no f**king way that I don’t start acquiring kids,' she shared.

The couple initially met on a film shoot in 2013, and the two crossed paths again years later, thanks to a shared friend, igniting a rapid and passionate romance.

Meyer posted this snap of them striking a playful pose as she gushed about her partner

The couple shared a loving gaze as the sun set behind them

'The day that I met her, it was like all bets were off,' Kristen said during an appearance on The Howard Stern Show in November 2019.

'I met her years ago on a movie and I hadn't seen her in six years, and then she rocked up at a friend's birthday party, and I was like, "Where have you been, and how have I not known you?' " she added.

'She's been living in L.A. alongside my life somehow but not ever converging.'

Kristen previously dated model Stella Maxwell, and producer Alicia Cargyle.

Meyer also praised Kristen as 'the hottest cat mom in the game'

As the offspring of Oscar-nominated screenwriter Nicholas Meyer, Dylan has amassed a multitude of professional achievements in both writing and acting.

Her most recent endeavors include contributing to the screenplay of Amy Poehler's 2021 Netflix coming-of-age film, Moxie.

In Vanity Fair's 28th annual Hollywood issue in 2022, Kristen revealed that she and Dylan are working on a new TV show together that she will star in.

'We discovered a superbrain,' Kristen said of the process of writing the script in just two weeks. 'She's a really genuinely brilliant f---ing screenwriter.'

In a June 2023 interview in Interview magazine, the Academy Award nominee revealed that they are also co-writing a film script.

'It's a stoner girl comedy, and it's really f------ stupid,' she said.