Selena Gomez's boyfriend Benny Blanco and Paris Hilton have been slammed over a 'sick' Instagram post showing them dressing up a live dying lobster.

Blanco, 35, and Hilton, 42, teamed up for a video to plug his new cookbook and her kitchenware line - but the ill-advised decision to use a live lobster as a prop in the video was lambasted by fans.

Opening a box containing the lobster, Benny said: 'I got the biggest lobster in the f*****g lobster in the world. Oh my god!'

Paris responded: 'Oh so sad, is it a boy or a girl?' with Benny saying: 'Does it have a d**k? Oh my god it's alive! It's still moving!'

A somber Paris responds: 'We can't do this' referring to killing and cooking the lobster as Benny says: 'What do you mean? I have the biggest thing in the world, what are we supposed to do with him?'

Selena Gomez's boyfriend Benny Blanco and Paris Hilton have been slammed over a 'sick' Instagram post showing them dressing up a live dying lobster

Blanco, 35, and Hilton, 42, teamed up for a video to plug his new cookbook and her kitchenware line - but the ill-advised decision to use a live lobster as a prop in the video was lambasted by fans

Paris says: 'Dress him up' before the pair place a crown on the lobster and bejeweled glasses as they make Bloody Marys - placing a drink in front of the lobster.

The pair then posed with the lobster - who was now wearing a 'That's hot!' bandana with its claw draped over one of Paris' handbags.

Fans were quick to criticize the stars, with one writing: 'Paris I love you but this is sick. Poor lobster.'

Another wrote: 'Poor animal' while another typed: 'I thought Paris loved animals?'

Others wrote: 'Like he is literally dying from lack of care', 'The lobster is scared…' and 'I’m so confused? How do you all think this is okay?'

PETA Senior Vice President Lisa Lange told DailyMail.com: 'We see a lot of callousness in our work to stop cruelty to animals, but joining a manchild in manhandling a living, feeling being for a few yucks on social media shows a startling lack of empathy—and to think that this person is a mother is deeply troubling.

'PETA would ask Paris to show some consideration here, but given her track record of using animals as props, we won’t hold our breath.'

Back in July Hilton was slammed by PETA for buying a new teacup chihuahua from a breeder instead of adopting from a shelter - and PETA revealed plans to plaster ads protesting her decision across Los Angeles.

The campaign was sparked after Hilton took to Instagram to gush over her new pup.

A spokesman for PETA, told DailyMail.com: 'The posters will be pointing out that Paris has overlooked millions of lovable homeless dogs in U.S. shelters while pimping for the pet-breeding industry,' Colley said.

'PETA hopes our street art blitz will remind every celebrity to lead by example and adopt, never shop.'

Opening a box containing the lobster, Benny said: 'I got the biggest lobster in the f*****g lobster in the world. Oh my god!'

Paris responded: 'Oh so sad, is it a boy or a girl?' with Benny saying: 'Does it have a d**k? Oh my god it's alive! It's still moving!'

A somber Paris responds: 'We can't do this' referring to killing and cooking the lobster as Benny says: 'What do you mean? I have the biggest thing in the world, what are we supposed to do with him?'

Paris says: 'Dress him up' before the pair place a crown on the lobster and bejeweled glasses as they make Bloody Marys - placing a drink in front of the lobster

The pair were seen posing the lobster up with a handbag in the post

Fans were quick to criticize the stars, with one writing: 'Paris I love you but this is sick. Poor lobster'

Blanco has shot to worldwide fame as the partner of Selena Gomez, even starring in a raunchy Valentine's Day post with her this week. However the singer has been forced to defend her romance after fans quickly pointed out that he seemingly shaded her back in 2020

Back in July Hilton was slammed by PETA for buying a new teacup chihuahua from a breeder instead of adopting from a shelter - and PETA revealed plans to plaster ads protesting her decision across Los Angeles

The PETA ads that the non-profit rolled out are pictured

Another PETA rep blasted the hotel heiress: 'Paris Hilton has apparently been living under a rock for the past decade, because a day in an animal shelter would have shown her just how many Chihuahuas already need homes, and five minutes on Petfinder would turn up thousands more, including puppies.'

Blanco has shot to worldwide fame as the partner of Selena Gomez, even starring in a raunchy Valentine's Day post with her this week.

However the singer has been forced to defend her romance after fans quickly pointed out that he seemingly shaded her back in 2020.

In 2020, Benny memorably praised her ex Justin Bieber during an interview with Zach Sang saying: 'Justin is not one of those cookie-cutter pop artists. You know, they're like, ‘This is my new single, and here’s my makeup line,’ but Justin’s like, ‘Yo, I have a pimple and I have anxiety.' Selena notably has her own make-up line.