James Rodriguez's volley, Arturo Vidal's crazy hair and Danny Murphy's jumper... it's time for Rio Ferdinand's World Cup awards!



James Rodriguez's superb volley, Arturo Vidal's crazy hair and Danny Murphy's jumper have been just a few of the stand-out moments of the 2014 World Cup, but what else?



Here, Sportsmail's Rio Ferdinand picks his World Cup awards as the tournament comes to a close.



Best player: James Rodriguez of Colombia

I picked him out from the start as being someone who would shine but he has surpassed that — he was the star of the World Cup.



He scored six goals and made two assists, as well as being the team’s talisman — all this and he’s only 23 years old. He is a national treasure and I predict that he will be the best player in the world within three years.

Best goal: James Rodriguez

His chest-and-volley in the game against Uruguay was a goal of wonder and delight.

Contact: James Rodriguez connects with the ball brilliantly on the volley after letting it drop from his chest

Volley: Diego Godin tries in vain to stop Rodriguez's rocket as it flies towards goal Helpless: Fernando Muslera can do nothing to stop Rodriguez's goal-bound strike Ecstatic: Rodriguez peels away after seeing the ball bounce down and into the net after hitting the crossbar

Best coach: Joachim Low

Germany have been the ultimate team in Brazil and have always looked strong and as if they know what they’re doing. This has to be in large part due to the contribution of their manager.



Best match: Brazil 1 Germany 7

This wins the award because it was a devastating, clinical, precise and well-organised performance by Germany.



Standing alone: Miroslav Klose became the tournament's leading scorer with 16 goals

Unhappy ending: Brazil conceded seven goals - five during the first-half - to end their World Cup dream

Best moment: Brazil and Colombia (shared)

Brazil for applauding Rodriguez after their game. Colombia for their incredible celebration dances.

Biggest mistake I made on TV: When I told everyone that we were at the Maracana when we weren’t



That wasn’t my greatest moment.

Greatest contribution to football hairstyles: Arturo Vidal of Chile

This wasn’t a vintage year for ridiculous hairstyles like some World Cups in the past but my award goes to Vidal for having such a lot going on on his head. He has a long way to go to match the king of bonkers football hairstyles, though: Taribo West is still the man.



The lucky winner: Arturo Vidal had a lot going on on his head at the World Cup with Chile

Favourite food in Brazil: Rice and beans

Very simple but very tasty and I grew up on rice and beans so this was like coming home!

Best contribution to footballing fashions: Danny Murphy’s jumper

What on earth was that all about? It was four sizes too big and hanging off him. Buy one that fits, Murph!

What I will miss most about Brazil: The friendly people

As well as waking up on the beach every day — not literally you understand, but waking up with the beach outside my window. Working with great people has also been brilliant as has meeting great people in Brazil.



I haven’t experienced any animosity or trouble at all. So I’d like to give a special award to the people of Brazil for making the World Cup so special.