Harrowing photographs captured by explorers show the inside of an abandoned vessel in eerie light before it was sent to the scrapyard.

The MS Astor first took to the waters in 1968 and spent 34 years at sea, transporting passengers on luxury cruises.

But in 2021 the ship was sent to one of the biggest demolition sites in the world in Aliaga, Turkey, where it sat desolated and uninhabited for several years.

Bob Thissen, 35, and his team of Urban Explorers were able to go aboard the MS Astor before it was destroyed, capturing some spooky footage of the abandoned vessel.

Tables and chairs stand just as they did when the ship was in use, while one image of the boat's retro bar shows drinks still sitting on tables as if someone had just been there.

The MS Astor first took to the waters in 1968 and spent 34 years at sea, taking passengers on luxury cruises

A retro bar shows drinks still sitting on tables as if someone had just been there

One haunting image shows a deep, empty swimming pool in a dark room next to wooden deck chairs and a fallen plant pot

A creepy spa room is seen in ghostly lighting with equipment still on the bed and a dressing gown hanging up on the wall

A large room inside the ship looks haunted as chairs are still in place and rubbish is seen on the floor

A theatre is seen with all the chairs still in place even though no one has been there for years

A room inside the ship is tilted but the furniture is still in place, with someone's globe resting on the table

In another harrowing image, a creepy spa room is seen in ghostly lighting with equipment still on the bed and a dressing gown hanging up on the wall.

One haunting photo shows a deep, empty swimming pool in a dark room next to wooden deck chairs and a fallen plant pot.

Other images show a theatre with all the chairs still in line, while another shows the ship's gym still perfectly in tact despite no one having used it for years.

Mr Thissen said: 'We got permission from BMS ship recycling to explore this ship before it got scrapped, a unique opportunity.

'It's a weird sight to see a place like a cruise ship which is normally full of life totally empty.

In 2021 the ship was sent to one of the biggest demolition sites in the world in Aliaga, Turkey, where it has sat desolated and uninhabited for several years

A gym inside the ship still contains all the equipment needed for a workout even though no one has used it for years

The vessel looks frozen in time as chairs and tables remain as if still in use even though the ship is abandoned

A creepy room inside the ship has chairs which look like someone has just been sat in them

Bob Thissen and his team of Urban Explorers were able to go aboard the MS Astor before it was demolished to capture the images

The MS Astor first hit the waters way back in 1986 and spent 34 years at sea

A deck of the ship still has photo frames on the walls despite being abandoned

Mr Thissen said: 'It's really sad that a ship in perfect condition like the Astor got scrapped'

He added: 'It's a weird sight to see a place like a cruise ship which is normally full of life totally empty'

'It's really sad that a ship in perfect condition like the Astor got scrapped, I'm sure it could have served for a lot more years if it wasn't for the pandemic.'

It comes months after police boarded an abandoned narco submarine 'ghost ship' found off Spain's coast - a day after another underwater vessel was discovered with corpses on board off the coast of Colombia.

The 50ft semi-submersible was spotted sinking in Vilagarcia de Arousa, off the coast of Spain's northern Pontevedra province in the Galicia region, last March.

Footage showed only the bow of the craft emerging from the waves and authorities inspecting the vessel, which was in an almost vertical position.