Viewers are used to seeing her wearing stylish suits as she presents on Channel Seven News.

But TV host Mel McLaughlin revealed her off-duty style as she attended the Craig Black x Fusion Rules Exhibition Launch Party in Sydney on Thursday.

Mel, 44, stunned in a white singlet and teal trousers.

The sports commentator wore her wavy hair down and completed her look with gold coloured jewellery.

Channel 10 presenter Niav Owens was also in attendance, sporting a floral turtleneck top with a brown jacket and pair of black jeans.

Channel Seven sports presenter Mel McLaughlin revealed her off-duty style as she attended the Craig Black x Fusion Rules Exhibition Launch Party in Sydney on Thursday

Scottish visual artist Craig Black, 35, has earned widespread recognition for his live performance art technique.

The Fusion Rules Exhibition specialises in artworks of various sports including AFL, cricket, rugby and basketball enticing sport enthusiasts.

Mel recently revealed she was at the centre of a freakish incident with a cricket umpire that forced play to be delayed at the 2023 Boxing Day Test.

The sports presenter was catching a lift from the MCG's underground car park with third umpire Richard Illingworth when the elevator malfunctioned, trapping them and eight other people and forcing her to use her phone to call for help.

Mel, 44, stunned in a white singlet and teal trousers

Channel 10 presenter Niav Owens was also in attendance, sporting a floral turtleneck top with a brown jacket and pair of black jeans

Scottish visual artist Craig Black, 35, (pictured) has earned widespread recognition for his live performance art technique

Play in the session after lunch was held up as a result of the scare, with McLaughlin describing what happened inside the lift when she joined her co-commentators Justin Langer and James Brayshaw afterwards.

'We [she and Illingworth] were having a bit of a chat ... and the doors open and then close and then didn't move again,' she said.

'He's standing in the corner and he went, 'Do you have a phone? Can you please call someone and let them know I'm in the lift, I'm going to be a little bit late?'

Mel recently revealed she was at the centre of a freakish incident with a cricket umpire that forced play to be delayed at the 2023 Boxing Day Test

'So yeah, everyone got to work and we got freed, I don't know, 10 minutes later. Sorry everyone!'

Play had to be delayed because the third umpire - while not taking up a position on the field - sits in a broadcast booth and is responsible for making the final call on dismissals that are referred to them by the two officials on the ground.

They can also serve as an on-field umpire in case of injury or illness.