Kyle Richards was spotted running errands during a solo outing in Los Angeles on Saturday.

The reality TV personality, 55, put on a stylish display as she rocked a green fedora to match her camisole, which she wore with an edgy chic, black cardigan.

The highlight of her outfit was the knit garment decorated with layers of silver chains and many safety pins.

The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills star — who discussed her future on the Bravo series after the 'difficult' season — wore a pair of black jeans and chunky leather shoes.

For an additional touch of glamour, she wore a pair of oversize, rectangular sunglasses and toted around a gray Hermès Birkin bag.

Kyle Richards was spotted running errands during a solo outing in Los Angeles on Saturday. The reality TV personality, 55, put on a stylish display as she rocked a green fedora to match her camisole, which she wore with an edgy chic, black cardigan

To go with the hardware decorating her cardigan, she accessorized with dainty silver hoop earrings.

She was also seen wearing a delicate chain bracelet, and there was no wedding ring in sight.

For her solo outing, she left her long brunette tresses down in a sleek and straight hairstyle and opted for a light, monochromatic makeup look as per usual.

Her weekend excursion comes shortly after she stepped out with her close friend and rumored lover Morgan Wade in Los Angeles.

On Thursday morning, the Halloween actress was pictured heading to a cozy breakfast spot with the country singer, 29.

In the past week, they enjoyed outings together multiple times as they put on a united front and shut down speculation of a friendship rift.

Rumors of a friendship breakup began after fans noticed Wade scrubbed her Instagram of any photos with Richards.

She later shut down rift speculation while a source told Page Six that she removed the majority of her posts to prepare for an upcoming music drop.

The highlight of her outfit was the knit garment decorated with layers of silver chains and many safety pins. The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills star wore a pair of black jeans and chunky leather shoes

Her weekend excursion comes shortly after she stepped out with her close friend and rumored lover Morgan Wade in Los Angeles. In the past week, they enjoyed outings together multiple times as they put on a united front and shut down speculation of a friendship rift

Richards and Wade have been romantically linked since the summer of 2023 despite previously denying a love affair. They became close friends after meeting over social media in early 2022; seen in September 2022

They were speculated to be dating after Richards announced her separation from estranged husband Mauricio Umansky in July 2023. Richards and Umansky have been married for 27 years and share three daughters — Alexia, 27, Sophia, 24, and Portia, 16

Richards and Wade have been romantically linked since the summer of 2023 despite previously denying a love affair.

They became close friends after meeting over social media in early 2022.

They were speculated to be dating after Richards announced her separation from estranged husband Mauricio Umansky in July 2023.

Richards and Umansky have been married for 27 years and share three daughters together.

They are parents to Alexia, 27, Sophia, 24, and Portia, 16.

Richards also shares daughter Farrah, 35, with her first husband Guraish Aldjufrie.