Manchester United striker Rasmus Hojlund has claimed he intended to score his second goal in the win 2-1 win over Luton.

The Danish striker extended his goal-scoring run to six matches with a brace at Kenilworth Road.

He opened the scoring against Rob Edwards' side after just 37 seconds, rounding Hatters goalkeeper Thomas Kaminski before guiding the ball into an empty net.

Hojlund's second goal came with more fortune after the ball struck his shoulder on it's way to the back of the net following a shot by Alejandro Garnacho.

However, the 20-year-old says he intended to score that way, telling Sky Sports: 'Yes (I meant it). I saw my body. I was surprised it was such a good goal to be fair. I'm trying to train like this.

Rasmus Hojlund extended his goal scoring streak to six matches with a brace at Luton

The Danish striker's second goal came with some fortune but he insists he meant to score it

Hojlund AGAIN! 🤯 pic.twitter.com/Y0OzGfxLyu — Sky Sports Premier League (@SkySportsPL) February 18, 2024

"That was such a good goal to be fair" 😍



Rasmus Hojlund talks through his goals against Luton 🔴🔥 pic.twitter.com/mfO1cGZmeE — Sky Sports Premier League (@SkySportsPL) February 18, 2024

Your browser does not support iframes.

'At the moment I have a lot of confidence so it goes in. I never doubted myself but of course you can be a bit down when you're not scoring. I always believe in myself, I knew it was just a matter of time.

'I always try to do my best. When we're in front of the goal I try to do the extra pass to win the game.

'I play for one of the biggest clubs in the world, so it's quality players I play and train with. I just want to keep getting even better.'

The win over Luton has put United three points behind fifth-placed Tottenham and five adrift of Aston Villa in fourth.

Hojlund has set his sight on a top-four finish and a deep run in the FA Cup, with the Red Devils set to visit Nottingham Forest in the fifth round later this month.

He added: 'This was massive today. Closing an even closer gap to Spurs. We need to keep pushing, it's our target to get Champions League football and go far in the FA Cup as well.'

United will seek to continue their impressive form next weekend when Fulham visit Old Trafford.