What a depressingly predictable court verdict.

Our democratically elected government has lost control of our borders, which are now open to a flood of illegal immigrants, any of whom could be rapists, murderers and terrorists.

The left-wing legal profession, snivel service blob and woke MSM are now firmly in control, ready to welcome a socialist government led by their man Slippery Starmer with open arms.

This is the depressing context in which the decision to once again scupper the Rwanda scheme by the Court of Appeal, which ruled the African nation unsafe today against the belief of the High Court and the Lord Chief Justice, was made.

Let me be clear, the political establishment – including the King, who previously described the policy as 'appalling' – simply doesn't want to stop the boats by securing Britain's open southern border, even though this is a perfectly legitimate policy backed by way more Brits than oppose it.

So they were never going to allow it a chance to work.

A group of migrants are brought into Dover Marine by a Border Force vessel on June 22

See also the intellectually dishonest report from the Home Office earlier this week trying to claim that it would cost £169,000 per deportation to Rwanda.

A figure that misses the entire point that the programme is designed to act as a deterrent, just like offshore processing in Australia stopped the boats entirely virtually overnight.

Remember, all those entering the UK via the Channel – over 45,000 last year alone – are not fleeing war and oppression, as Labour and its cabal of human rights lawyers like to claim, but the first world country of France.

When these largely male and young economic migrants realise making the potentially perilous journey by dinghy could see them permanently relocated to Rwanda, staying in France is likely to become the best option.

Home Secretary Suella Braverman today described the 'madness' of the court decision as 'phoney humanitarianism'.

She's completely right.

What the hell is humane about empowering despicable people smuggling gangs who make thousands of humans a month take an unsafe journey across the Channel illegally and dispose of their documents so it is impossible to identify their true nationality, age or criminal history once they arrive?

The ONLY humane thing to do is stop the boats, both for the illegal migrants and genuine asylum seekers whose places in the UK are being taken, not to mention the British public who are being put at risk by undocumented arrivals.

And what about the arrogance of middle-class white woke folk in the UK sneering at an African nation, claiming it is somehow substandard, compared to an overrun British hotel?

Home Secretary Suella Braverman (pictured) described the 'madness' of the court decision as 'phoney humanitarianism'

Imagine if they were doing that in any other circumstance. Sure, the country has a dark history but is now widely considered an appealing destination, with Visit Rwanda tourism being the shirt sponsor for the football club Arsenal.

The UN Refugee Agency even has its own scheme to send asylum seekers to Rwanda, which is part-funded by the European Union.

The understandably livid Rwandan government issued its own statement following the judgement, insisting that theirs is 'one of the safest countries in the world', with a focus on 'exemplary treatment of refugees'.

The left frames this debate as some sort of moral referendum about whether one has compassion and empathy for genuine refugees.

But it is not a binary choice.

Where is the compassion and empathy for the British public who have voted time and again, including in the 2016 Brexit vote, the biggest mandate in our country's history, to control immigration, only to have our democratic will ignored?

Where is the compassion and empathy for the local communities having their heart ripped out of them, with previously thriving hotels being taken over by young male migrants with nothing to do?

Where is the compassion and empathy for Peter Wallace, whose aspiring Royal Marine son Tommy Roberts was killed by an illegal migrant Lawangeen Abdulrahimzai who was already a murderer when he was allowed into the country by soft touch authorities?

When I spoke to Peter recently, he told me if the current policy approach continued then 'someone else is going to die'.

Indeed, just this week a 33-year-old illegal migrant was charged with the brutal rape of a woman in Skegness, just 40 days after entering the country via the Channel on a dinghy.

The problem is that the government, led by the technocrat globalist Fishy Rishi Sunak, doesn't have the true grit and determination required to stop the boats, even though it is one of his five all-important pledges to the British public.

The Hope Hostel accommodation in Kigali, Rwanda, where migrants were due to stay

There's so much more we could have done, from a turnback policy, creating processing centres on offshore British territories to not believing the lies of President Macron and challenging the French inertia on this issue.

And then there's the most important and obvious decision of them all.

In order to fully regain our sovereignty and be able to take decisions in the best interests of British citizens, the UK must leave the European Convention on Human Rights, which could still scupper Rwanda flights even if the government wins an appeal at the Supreme Court.

While she can't say so publicly, given the weakness of her PM, Suella knows this is the only real way to take back control of our borders as promised in 2016.

In fact, she campaigned on a policy of leaving the ECHR when running against Sunak and Liz Truss to replace Boris Johnson last summer.

The alternative is grave because it seems we will never be able to send migrants to Rwanda while the left-wing establishment is in control.

And until we can send migrants to Rwanda, there is no hope of a deterrent to stop the boats.

The British public are rightfully furious, prompting Sunak to talk the talk today, insisting: 'The policy of this government is very simple, it is this country – and your government – who should decide who comes here, not criminal gangs. And I will do whatever is necessary to make that happen.'

Well, if Sunak means what he says, the solution is obvious.

The time has come for the government to campaign for a referendum to leave the ECHR to stop the boats.

It's the Prime Minister's last hope of saving the UK from an open borders disaster of a Labour/Lib Dem/SNP/Green coalition from hell – and his own career.