A property that was dubbed Grand Designs' 'saddest ever' house has seen its value almost slashed in half as shocking pictures showed large cracks in the building.

Large cracks in the driveway have left the asking price for Chesil Cliff House at £5.25million, down significantly from a high of £10million.

The ambitious build became infamous after the home's construction left its owner Edward Short in £7million of debt.

Its construction took 12 years and went several million pounds over budget.

It featured on Channel 4's Grand Designs in what was described as the series' 'saddest episode ever' by many viewers when it aired in October 2019.

The episode followed Edward and his family as misfortune beset the project leaving the house in Croyde, Devon, unfinished and with the family plunged into millions of pounds worth of debt.

A property that featured on Grand Designs has seen its value plummet from £10million to £5.25million

Large cracks pictured in the driveway of Chesil Cliff House have slashed the property's value by nearly half

The home's original driveway was built in the 1960s

The five-bedroom home is back on the market again, listed by Savills on behalf of Joint Receivers at a knockdown price of £5.25m on Rightmove

The show also revealed that the process had taken a strain on Edward's personal life, resulting in his separating from his wife Hazel.

In February last year, Edward issued a promising update - with rumours swirling that celebrities including Harry Styles were in talks to buy the mansion - but no sale could be finalised.

And now the five-bedroom home is back on the market again, listed by Savills on behalf of Joint Receivers at a knockdown price of £5.25m on Rightmove.

Owner Edward Short has now revealed why the sale fell through - and how he plans to pay back his debts.

'We had a slight problem - the old driveway that was there before we bought the property,' Edward said.

'We built a brand-new driveway down to the new house, but the original driveway that goes down the other way has become a problem.

'That was partly behind the buyer's concern, because I think that was built in the 1960s.

'I've got to try and find a way to pay the lender back as much as possible.

'My belief is that we should be fixing the drive and taking that risk element away, but that's a negotiation I've got to have - I think that's the way for me to pay back the most money.

'The lenders have been very good with giving me time to sell it. It's always going to be a bit of a financial fiasco to me, but that's not the biggest problem in the world.

'The price now is very good, and reflects the fact that you can just take that on and do it yourself.

'It was for sale all year and didn't sell, but I'd be surprised if it didn't sell at that price.'

Edward reportedly plans to borrow another £2million to fix it and install the final fixtures and fittings to try and restore its original asking price and make it more appealing to buyers.

He told the Sun: 'We tried reducing the price to sell but it had a growing problem in the old driveway.

'We built a driveway to the new house but there was an older one, possibly built in the 1960s, that goes down to the smaller house, The Eye.

'The edge of it is collapsing so it's no longer safe to use. That is reflected in the price drop.

'But everything's fixable and I believe I can raise funds to build a better entrance where you can park cars and still drive left to The Eye or right to the house. It's an opportunity to really improve it.'

The ambitious build became infamous after the home's construction left its owner Edward Short in £7million of debt

Despite ongoing setbacks at Chesil Cliff House, Edward says he has begun a 'new life,' and is eager to put the past behind him.

Edward is also set to tie the knot with fiancée Jalia Nambasa and says that finding love is more important than money.

'There have been highs and lows, but I'm used to highs and lows with this,' Edward said.

'I'm used to dealing with adversity, and money has always come and gone in my life.

'Things change that you don't expect - I've fallen in love with a new partner now, and I'm engaged!

'I woke up one morning and realised I can do anything I want all of a sudden. The world had suddenly opened up again.

'That moment opened things up - and I ended up in Bath, and falling in love!

'That's a much harder thing to find in your life than money.

'It makes a huge difference to have support. It's like a new life.'

Now, he still hopes to sell the property - but says he's already put the situation behind him.

'Mentally, this is all over and behind me anyway, but I still have to fight to the best outcome to pay the most money back,' said Edward.

'I'm going to get on with my new life - whatever the ending is, it'll be what it'll be.'