Zoe Kravitz and fiancé Channing Tatum looked relaxed as they headed home from dinner Saturday in Beverly Hills.

The actress, 35, who recently returned from a trip to New York, bundled up in an oversized tan ankle length coat.

Underneath, the Kimi star was dressed in a black sweater and pants with a pair of ballet flats.

Her dark hair was styled in loose curls and she wore natural looking makeup.

The Screen Actors Guild nominee added a pop of color, carrying a bright pink purse.

Zoe Kravitz and fiancé Channing Tatum looked relaxed as they headed home from dinner Saturday in Beverly Hills. The actress, 35, bundled up in an oversized tan ankle length coat

Channing, 43, kept it casual in a pair of black pants with a drawstring waist and a sage green sweater over a black T-shirt.

The Lost City star wore white sneakers.

His hair and beard were closely cropped.

The couple were enjoying dinner with friends at Funke, a restaurant serving authentic Italian pasta.

The couple, who have been engaged since October, met while they were working on Blink Twice, Zoe's directorial debut.

Zoe co-wrote the script in which Channing takes on the role of a tech billionaire who invites a cocktail waitress named Frida, played by Naomi Ackie, 31, to join him and his friends on a dream vacation on his private island.

Thing go well for the first bit until strange things begins to happen.

The problem is, the island is used for something much more sinister.

The Kimi star was dressed in a black sweater and pants with a pair of ballet flats. Channing, 43, kept it casual in a pair of black pants with a drawstring waist and a sage green sweater over a black T-shirt. He wore white sneakers

The couple, who have been engaged since October, met while they were working on Blink Twice, Zoe's directorial debut (Pictured in New York in September 2021)

The tagline for the thriller reads, 'There is something wrong with this place. She’ll have to uncover the truth if she wants to make it out of this party alive.'

Zoe told the Wall Street Journal in 2022 the original title of the film, Pu**y Island, was 'the seed of the story.'

'It represents this time where it would be acceptable for a group of men to call a place that, and the illusion that we’re out of that time now.'

Zoe co-wrote the script for Blink Twice in which Channing takes on the role of a tech billionaire with his own private island where he holds extravagant parties, but there's danger lurking beneath the luxurious surface. The film will be released in August

In a interview for GQ's 2022 Men of the Year Issue, the Big Little Lies star described her future husband as someone who looked out for her on the set.

'Whether it was making me tea or pouring me a drink or going to whip someone into shape or whatever — he was my protector and it was really wonderful and sweet,' she said.

Other cast members include Alia Shawkat, Simon Rex, Haley Joel Osment, Christian Slater, Kyle MacLachlan, Adria Arjona and Geena Davis.

The thriller is scheduled to debut in theaters August 23.