Kim, 43, does not want Bianca, 29, to parade in risqué clothes in front of her kids

Kim Kardashian has warned her ex-husband Kanye West to tell his new wife Bianca Censori to ‘cover up’ and refrain from wearing her infamously-scandalous outfits around their children, insiders have claimed.

Kim, 43, is said to have an amicable relationship with 29-year-old Bianca – but is reportedly not a fan of her parading her risqué fashion in front of North, ten, Saint, eight, Chicago, six and Psalm, four, whom she shares with the rapper.

‘Kim instructed Kanye to never let Bianca dress like that around their kids,’ a source told DailyMail.com exclusively. ‘She is truly surprised that Kanye would let his wife leave the house like that.’

Australian-born Bianca has been pictured in a slew of headline-grabbing outfits since she married 46-year-old Kanye in December 2022 – less than one month after his divorce from Kim was finalized.

Kim Kardashian, 43 (seen with her children North, 10, Saint, eight, Chicago, six, and Psalm, four) wants ex-husband Kanye West's wife Bianca Censori, 29, to cover up when with her kids

Kim feels surprised that her ex-husband allows his new wife to dress in near-naked outfits, a source told DailyMail.com

Bianca's friends and family feel that she is being used by Kanye to promote his new album with Ty Dolla $ign, which she appears on the cover of with Kanye (pictured)

She was photographed wearing a skimpy outfit that barely covered her breasts and behind at last weekend’s Super Bowl, which was mocked online for looking like a ‘taco shell,’ and just days before stepped out in a clear raincoat with nothing underneath.

But in pictures with Kim’s children, Bianca’s outfits have been more reserved.

She wore long pants and an oversized black coat while taking care of North, Saint and Chicago at Kanye's Vultures listening party in Miami in December.

Kanye recently appeared to defend his wife's bizarre, and at times obscene outfit choices, as well as his decision to post half naked photos of her on his Instagram.

‘Ima post my wife as much as I want bro,’ he told his 19.5 million followers on Tuesday. ‘It makes me happy. Some people don’t want you to be happy. They want you to make them happy. I decided to make myself happy and I’m happy with that [sic].’

Unlike Bianca's raunchy wardrobe, Kim was asked to change her outfits if Kanye felt she was showing too much skin, with the artist heavily influencing her fashion choices during their seven-year marriage.

'Kanye did the same thing he is doing with Bianca to Kim throughout their marriage,' the source continued. ‘The difference is that when Kanye dressed Kim, he was respected as a person – as an artist.

'Unfortunately, Kim knows what Bianca is going through – but she feels Bianca should have known what she was getting into.’

Bianca wore an unusually reserved ensemble during an outing with Kaye's children in Miami in December

Kim's comments come after Bianca was seen wearing this barely-there ensemble at a Super Bowl after-party

The billionaire SKIMS founder talked openly about Kanye’s influence over her fashion choices throughout their relationship.

In a 2018 interview with W Magazine, she said: 'I always thought I had really good style – until I met my husband, and he told me that I had the worst style.'

And in an episode of Keeping Up with The Kardashians, she said: 'Kanye has always dressed me. In the early 2000s, he would literally just send me random emails with all these looks and what my style should be.'

When Kim disagreed with her husband's advice, he told her: 'You are my wife, and it affects me when pictures are too sexy.'

Kanye previously criticized Kim’s SKIMS brand for being 'overly sexualized.’

She also revealed that he disapproved of her 2019 Thierry Mugler Met Gala dress, branding her corset a ‘form of underwear’ the night before the event.

It wasn't only Kim's clothes that Kanye took issue with, but her appearance as well.

At the Vogue 100 Festival in 2016, the brunette beauty said: 'My husband loves me without make-up. I would wear make-up 24/7 if I could, but he likes me without it.'

But his apparent hold over Bianca’s style has raised concerns for her friends who fear she has not only changed since meeting him, but is being 'used' to promote his new album, Vultures.

Her parents are also said to be 'mortified' at seeing their daughter in such strange ensembles – in particular the clear raincoat she wore recently with nothing but a pair of black boots.

Kanye arrived with Bianca to the Super Bowl fully clothed before she stripped off the excessive garments to party in her risky ensemble

Kanye frequently criticized Kim's outfits for being too sexy, and took aim at a Thierry Mugler dress she wore to the 2019 Met Gala (pictured)

‘Her family and friends are mortified because it just keeps getting worse and worse,' an insider previously told DailyMail.com exclusively.

'Bianca clearly doesn't realize that what she wore isn't only disgusting and setting a bad example, but she is also potentially breaking the law.

'Meanwhile, Kanye is covered up with five layers of clothes and when his wife looked chilly while naked and wrapped in plastic he didn't so much as offer her one of his capes.'

The source continued: 'Her parents are so distressed over this because they do not recognize her.

'She would not be doing this unless she was being controlled.'

On Kanye's recently released hit album Vultures, Bianca is featured on the cover with her entire backside exposed. Kanye has also used her to promote his Vultures-inspired clothing on Yeezy.com, including a 'Wet T-Shirt' crop-top.

'He continues to lock her in by giving her more stake and ownership over various projects that he has going on, including the clothing,' the insider added.