He revealed that the one word never to be uttered by passengers is 'Titanic'

The US-based TikTok creator has been documenting his experience

A keen traveler has revealed the one word you should never say onboard a cruise ship - after he found out the hard way.

Marc Sebastian is a US-based TikTok creator who has been sharing his experience of Royal Caribbean's nine-month Ultimate World Cruise with his 1.7 million followers.

Most recently, he took to the video-sharing platform to share the lessons he had learned thus far with his viewers.

Marc shared that the most shocking piece of information he discovered was that the word 'Titanic' was not allowed to be muttered while onboard.

Marc Sebastian is a US-based TikTok creator who has been sharing his experience of Royal Caribbean's nine-month Ultimate World Cruise with his 1.7 million followers

He has revealed the one word you should never say onboard a cruise ship - after he found out the hard way

In a now viral video, which has so far amassed more than 4.1 million views, he explained: 'You're not supposed to talk about the Titanic. Who knew that? I didn't.

'I brought up to an entire room of people having lunch that our ship was only 100 feet longer than Titanic.

'When I tell you that — utensils dropped, waiters gasped, it's dead silent.'

He noted that in the immediate aftermath his pal had to let him know that the word was banned.

Marc added: 'Well, it wasn't like that was in the f**king handbook. Not that I read the handbook, clearly.'

The social media star also shared that he learned that the cruise had a 'godmother' - who he claimed was Whoopi Goldberg - and revealed that the ship even had a rubber duck scavenger hunt.

People flooded the comments section to offer their thoughts on the light-hearted mishap.

One person said: 'I'm sorry if I'm going on a boat I'm talking about Titanic and Ocean Gate.'

People flooded the comments section to offer their thoughts on the light-hearted mishap

Someone else added: 'The way I would be talking about the Titanic all the time.'

'How can you NOT talk about the Titanic? lol I get being superstitious, but I'm not superstitious so I'm like COME ONNNNN,' added one user.

'Okay but I'm on a ship I'm talking about Titanic,' added one user.

Marc first joined the cruise on January 5 after becoming intrigued by the drama onboard when the vessel was engulfed in claims that it was home to rampant swingers.

The content creator begged the crew to let him on the ship and let him start a reality show.

He said: 'There will be enough footage for at LEAST three season, one-hour episodes.

In a now viral video, which has so far amassed more than 4.1 million views, he explained: 'You're not supposed to talk about the Titanic. Who knew that? I didn't'

'Put me on the cruise — I'll go. I will cause chaos, I will wreak havoc, and I will film everything.'

The clip garnered viral success and prompted Marc to announce that he would be boarding the cruise after partnering with Atria Books.

While he didn't get to be on the ship for 274 days, he spent 18 days on the boat and documented his experience.

His last day on board was January, 23.