A couple was left stunned after they discovered that they were the only guests staying at a luxury five-star resort in Mexico.

Cameron Jensen headed to Los Cabos earlier this month with his wife for their babymoon, booking a room at the brand new Grand Velas Boutique Los Cabos, where rooms start at a whopping $1,150 a night.

But soon after arriving, the pair noticed that they didn't see any other people around the property - and while having the entire place to themselves came with some perks, they admitted that it was also a little 'creepy.'

Cameron documented the stay on his TikTok account and the videos quickly went viral, leaving the internet divided over whether or not they'd enjoy being the only ones at a sprawling resort.

A couple was left stunned after they discovered that they were the only guests staying at a luxury five-star resort in Mexico

Cameron Jensen headed to Los Cabos with his wife for their babymoon, booking a room at the brand new Grand Velas, where rooms start at a whopping $1,150 a night

Soon after arriving, the pair noticed that they didn't see any other people around the property - and they admitted that having the entire place to themselves was a little 'creepy'

Cameron documented the stay on his TikTok account and the videos quickly went viral, leaving the internet divided over whether or not they'd enjoy being the only ones at a sprawling resort

'This was kinda creepy, we had this whole entire resort to ourselves,' Cameron began in one video, as a montage of clips that showcased eerily empty restaurants, pools, beaches, cabanas, and lounges flashed across the screen.

Cameron showcased eerily empty restaurants, pools, beaches, cabanas, and lounges

'At first, it started as a joke, we were joking, looks like we have the whole place to ourselves.

'I started recording on our first day when I didn't see anybody but employees. But as the days progressed, it started to freak us out. It felt like an episode of Black Mirror.'

Cameron told his followers that he would get 'excited' any time he saw someone around the property, only to realize they were actually employees or contractors working on the resort.

He said he searched every area looking for fellow vacationers, and revealed that they ended up seeing an 'elderly couple' one night at the restaurant and another younger pair once during breakfast - but other than that, they didn't come across any other guests during their stay.

'It was kinda cool until it wasn't. I would find myself at night looking over the whole place trying to find someone,' he admitted.

'Things started to get a little creepier when we went to the activities and were also by ourselves.'

Cameron added that the hotel was 'very nice' and the food was 'top notch,' and wondered, 'Why isn't this place jam-packed?'

Cameron said that at first, he and his wife laughed about it, but then it started to 'feel like an episode of Black Mirror'

'It was kinda cool until it wasn't. I would find myself at night looking over the whole place trying to find someone,' Cameron admitted

Cameron added that the hotel was 'very nice' and the food was 'top notch,' and wondered, 'Why isn't this place jam-packed?'

Cameron told his followers that he would get 'excited' any time he saw someone around the property, only to realize they were actually employees or contractors working on the resort

'I have asked employees why it's so empty and every time I get a different answer.

He said he searched every area looking for fellow vacationers, and revealed that they ended up seeing one 'elderly couple' one night at the restaurant and another younger pair once during breakfast - but other than that, they didn't come across any other guests during their entire stay

'The answers have ranged from, "What are you talking about, it is full?" to "construction" to "it's slow season." The one thing they all have in common is getting uncomfortable when I ask.'

After Cameron's video went viral - the initial TikTok received a whopping 6.7 million views - people understandably had a lot of questions.

Some even accused him of faking it being empty for views, so he replied by sharing a walk-through tour of the hotel to prove that they were really alone.

He trailed through the desolate hallways before visiting the vacant gym and various eateries. He then showed off a vast white lobby with no signs of life.

He also insisted that they were 'not sponsored,' it 'wasn't staged,' and that they 'had paid full price for the trip.'

When it came time to check out, Cameron shared a clip that showed the entire staff lined up to bid him and his wife farewell.

Some people on TikTok accused him of pretending the resort was empty for views, so he replied by sharing a walk-through tour of the hotel to prove they were really alone

He trailed through the desolate hallways before visiting the vacant gym and various eateries

When it came time to check out, Cameron shared a clip that showed the entire staff lined up to bid him and his wife farewell

The hotel even had a band playing for them as they left, and a few staff members held up a sign that said 'You're not alone.'

They even had a band playing for them as they left, and a few staff members held up a sign that said 'You're not alone'

'They must have saw my viral video,' Cameron theorized.

In the end, despite feeling 'panicked' about being there alone at first, he and his wife said they had a great time and appreciated the 'amazing' staff who made them feel 'special and loved.'

They added that being the only guests came with some positives - like getting a private dinner on the beach one night.

As for why there was no one there, Cameron explained in a final video that he found out after returning home that the hotel had only opened a few weeks prior to them visiting.

'We didn't know that going into it,' his wife insisted.

The Grand Velas Boutique Los Cabos opened in December 2023 and is described as an 'unparalleled coastal hideaway' and 'the epitome of luxury' on its website.

In the end, despite feeling 'panicked' about being there alone at first, he and his wife said they had a great time and appreciated the 'amazing' staff who made them feel 'special and loved'

They added that being the only guests came with some positives - like getting a private dinner on the beach one night

As for why there was no one there, Cameron explained in one final video that he found out after returning home that the hotel had only opened a few weeks prior to them visiting it

'Nestled by the Sea of Cortez in Mexico's prestigious coastal haven, Grand Velas Boutique Los Cabos is a luxurious and intimate retreat, offering 79 opulent suites and a private beach,' the description reads.

'This all-inclusive, adults-only boutique hotel in Cabo San Lucas offers a romantic escape with access to our sister property, Grand Velas Los Cabos.

'Indulge in five-star culinary artistry. Lounge by the infinity pool. Renew at the wellness center, and feel the luxury of personalized service.'

In a statement to DailyMail.com, a rep for the resort said, 'While we cannot comment specifically on if a guest is staying at any of our resorts... Grand Velas Boutique Los Cabos opened on January 8 and in its soft opening phase.

'We are limiting the number of suites available for booking until we are confident that all aspects of the resort from accommodations and restaurants to design and service will surpass travelers' expectations.'

'At all of the collection's properties, Velas Resorts operate at 100 per cent regardless of the number of actual guests staying on property.

'That is a staff to guest ratio of three to one, versus many other resorts that are the opposite (three guests to every one staff).

'Velas Resorts prides itself on offering the very best, not just when it comes to service, but food, accommodations, design, [and] experiences.

'Comparatively higher than others in the destination, our nightly rates reflect the value that one receives when visiting Velas Resorts. We don't lower our rates to pack people in.'