Jamie Laing has broken his silence after furious Radio 1 listeners slammed his new role on the show.

It emerged on Friday that Jamie will be replacing Jordan North, 34, who quit the legendary Going Home show after a decade on on the BBC station.

Jamie, 35, will appear Monday to Thursday, 3.30pm to 6pm - next to radio co-host Vick Hope from March, 4.

However, fans were left dismayed over the news, with one fuming listener writing on Twitter: 'Ffs radio 1 has turned into the posh boys club'.

Undeterred by the backlash, Jamie addressed his new role in an Instagram post on Sunday, writing that it felt 'unreal' to be joining the Radio 1 family.

Jamie Laing has broken his silence after furious Radio 1 listeners slammed his new role on the show presenting Monday to Thursday, 3.30pm to 6pm - next to radio co-host Vick Hope

Undeterred by the backlash, Jamie addressed his new role in an Instagram post on Sunday, writing that it felt 'unreal' to be joining the Radio 1 family

He penned: 'Guys, firstly I’m beyond excited to be joining the amazing Vick Hope on BBC Radio 1's drivetime show.

'Jordan North is a complete pro/legend, he's left some really big shoes to fill so I’m going to do my absolute best to do him and the show justice, and to be working alongside the insane Vick Hope is amazing.

'I’ve always loved music and radio and grew up a Radio 1 fan, so to be joining the BBC Radio 1 family officially feels unreal.

Lot's of you may know I'm never happier than when in front of the 1 mic, chatting to people, sharing stories, having fun and to continue that on drive time is going to be wild in the best way.

I will pour everything I have into making it the best show I possibly can for the listeners who love it so much. now, let's go!! Radio 1 baby! Jamie x.'

Jamie is a broadcaster and producer who currently co-hosts the hugely successful Radio 1 podcast 6 Degrees from Jamie and Spencer.

He can also be heard on the popular podcast NewlyWeds which he presents alongside his wife Sophie Habboo.

The personality tied the knot on April, 14, 2023 in London before they headed to Marbella for a second wedding in front of friends and family on May, 20, 2023.

On the appointment, Jamie said in a press release: 'I've loved every minute that I've been on air with Radio 1 in recent years, so to be joining Vick on Drivetime is just incredible.

'To be working with Vick is an absolute dream so I'm beyond excited to get started and keep listeners company on their journeys home.'

Fans were left dismayed over the news, with one fuming listener writing on Twitter : 'Ffs radio 1 has turned into the posh boys club'

Jordan North has quit Radio One's legendary Going Home after a decade starring on the BBC show

Show bosses penned: 'Radio 1 will be saying goodbye to Jordan North. Jordan has been behind some of the most hilarious and entertaining moments on air over the years, and has been a constant source of inspiration'.

But fans weren't pleased, sharing: 'Oh yes the famous expert in music... why don’t you have people who actually know about music, absolutely ridiculous...

'Won't be listening to that anymore then another pointless celebrity on either radio or tv why is there such an obsession with all these talentless made in people'.

Radio 1 will be saying goodbye to Jordan, who has been heard on Radio 1 for the last 10 years with his first major show being Radio 1's Greatest Hits on Sundays.

He was announced as a co-host on the BBC Radio 1 daily drivetime show in 2021, alongside Vick.

In 2020, the presenter finished second in the 20th series of ITV's I’m a Celebrity…Get Me Out of Here, before he completed an epic 100-mile rowing challenge from London to Burnley for Comic Relief in March 2022.

Head of Radio 1, Aled Haydn Jones said: 'Jordan has enjoyed huge support from the station and listeners, developing his talent to host multiple shows across the network.

Fans were left dismayed over the news, with one fuming listener writing on Twitter : 'Ffs radio 1 has turned into the posh boys club'

Further devastation came, with fans writing: 'Oh yes the famous expert in music... why don’t you have people who actually know about music, absolutely ridiculous'

In the original announcement post, bosses penned: 'Radio 1 will be saying goodbye to Jordan North. Jordan has been behind some of the most hilarious and entertaining moments on air over the years, and has been a constant source of inspiration'

Jordan is pictured with his co-star Vick in October

'He has been behind some of the most hilarious and entertaining moments on air over the years, and has been a constant source of inspiration for younger presenters.

'Jordan has been an amazing presenter and a valued colleague at Radio 1, and I'm so proud of his journey with us.

'He has always connected with the Radio 1 audience through his shows and projects, as witnessed by the huge amount of money raised for Comic Relief during his rowing trip from London to Burnley.'

He added: 'I'm so excited to officially welcome Jamie to the Radio 1 family. From his hugely popular BBC podcast to his appearances on the network, our young audiences have loved him.

'His infectious energy and love for music and culture will bring an exciting new element to Drivetime, I can't wait for people to hear all of the exciting new ideas Vick and Jamie have lined up.'