Prince Harry and Meghan have visited the Mount Currie Community Centre on the traditional territory of the Lil'wat Nation as part of their three-day trip to Canada.

The Duke and Chief Dean Nelson joined students and young adults on Thursday morning in a game of wheelchair basketball, with government officials, members of the Invictus community and partners cheering them on from the sidelines.

Upon their arrival at the centre in British Colombia, the couple received a tradition welcome and were handed several symbolic gifts, including a hand-carved cedar art piece to signify strength and a traditional basket that takes over a year to make.

'The couple were humbled to be invited and extend their deepest gratitude to Chief Nelson, Chief Gélpcal and the people of the Lil'wat Nation for their generous hospitality and kindness,' a spokesperson said.

The event tied in with Invictus Games 2025's goal to partner with local First Nations - the Líl̓wat, Musqueam, Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh.

Prince Harry and Meghan shaking hands with players ahead of the wheelchair basketball game at Mount Currie Community Centre in British Colombia on Thursday

The Duke and Chief Dean Nelson at the centre. They joined students and young adults in a game of wheelchair basketball, with government officials, members of the Invictus community and partners cheering them on from the sidelines

Upon their arrival, the couple received a tradition welcome and were handed several symbolic gifts, including a hand-carved cedar art piece to signify strength

Later in the day, Prince Harry enjoyed a thrill-filled ride around a skeleton bobsleigh track in Whistler.

The 38-year-old achieved an impressive top speed of 61mph during his daring adventure - a feat that left even his wife Meghan, 42, voicing her awe, telling fellow onlookers that she was 'impressed' with her husband's skills.

While Meghan did not take part in the bobsleighing fun at the Whistler Sliding Centre, she was able to enjoy every aspect of her husband's ride when he got off the sled - before enthusiastically re-enacting his thrill ride to his wife and Invictus volunteers after getting off.

On Wednesday evening, the Sussexes visited the Squamish Líl̓wat Cultural Centre, where they met the four artists who came up with the Invictus Games Vancouver Whistler 2025 logo.

The teams in the wheelchair basketball game. The event tied in with Invictus Games 2025's goal to partner with local First Nations — the Líl̓wat, Musqueam, Squamish, and Tsleil-Waututh

On Thursday evening, the Sussexes visited the Squamish Líl̓wat Cultural Centre, where they met the four artists who came up with the Invictus Games Vancouver Whistler 2025 logo

One of the artists, Levi Nelson, wrote on Facebook: 'I met a Prince on Valentine's Day! I had the honor of meeting with the Duke and Duchess of Sussex Prince Harry and Meghan this evening in Whistler, to discuss the meaning of the design for the Invictus Games 2025.'

He added: 'What a moment, it felt like a dream, I could barely remember what I said. They were so gracious, I even walked and talked with Meghan for a bit. Prince Harry was so impressed with the design and said it was his favorite!

'It felt special that they gave their time to have an audience with me and the other artists, because as soon as we walked with them into the S'Istken Hall at the SLCC, they got swarmed, and then I had to go and hobnob with the other hobnobs.'

Prince Harry and Meghan have hit out at criticism of their new website and royal rebrand - defiantly insisting they 'will not be broken'.

The couple, who have been embroiled in a series of controversies this week, issued the extraordinary statement on Thursday evening.

They have come under fire in recent days over the Sussex.com website, in particular Meghan's coat of arms - which critics claim is a breach of their promise to the late Queen Elizabeth when they acrimoniously quit front-line royal duties.

And their decision to change their children Archie and Lilibet's surnames to Sussex has also raised eyebrows among royal watchers.

The moves have sparked a fresh round of criticism of the Duke and Duchess and renewed calls for the duo to have their titles removed.

But on Thursday evening, a representative for Harry and Meghan slapped down suggestions these were the last chances for them to win back popularity and success.

The source said: 'We've heard time and time again that certain opportunities are make or break for the couple.

'They're still here. They're still working and pursuing what they believe in, despite constantly being challenged and criticised. This couple will not be broken.'

Prince Harry proved himself on Thursday as he attempted a run around a skeleton bobsleigh track - achieving an impressive top speed of 61mph

While Meghan did not take part in the bobsleighing fun, she was able to enjoy every aspect of her husband's ride when he got off the sled and re-enacted the ride for her

Meghan held on to Harry's arm as the pair walked through the snowy resort

Meghan watching on as Harry tries his hand at skeleton bobsleigh

Prince Harry sliding down the track on a skeleton sled during an Invictus Games training camp

Harry and Meghan spent Valentine's Day in Whistler, promoting the next Invictus Games while being followed by a film crew.

It was their first public appearance since the announcement of King Charles' cancer diagnosis.

In their latest royal row, sources say they did not consult palace officials about using their Sussex titles.

A source close to the couple defended the use of their royal titles, saying: 'Prince Harry and Meghan are the Duke and Duchess of Sussex. That is a fact. It is their surname and family name.'