It may be one of Britain's most iconic landmarks but, for many expectant tourists, Big Ben is a big old letdown.

The beloved clock tower has more than 32,000 reviews on TripAdvisor and, while it has accrued more than 19,000 5-star ratings, the attraction has a legion of haters.

Some 764 people have taken to the travel website to give Big Ben a 'terrible' 1-star review and to give their constructive criticism.

The most recent sceptic, Leo N, visited in September 2023 but spent two months carefully crafting his feedback, finally posting his thoughts in November.

The review read: 'Just a big clock really init...Nothing special really could just go my nan's house and see a clock except Big Ben's 10x bigger (where did Big Ben get its name by the way?)'

It may be one of Britain's most iconic landmarks but, for many expectant tourists, Big Ben is a big old letdown

Disgruntled visitors on Tripadvisor have complained about everything from the architecture to the location to the abundance of pigeons

The big clock has stood proudly by the River Thames since the mid-19th century but even that doesn't make it immune to criticism

Laird Cook had travelled all the way down from Inverness in Scotland to see Big Ben but was left bitterly disappointed by the popular attraction

Viewing the 19th century building as merely a timekeeping tool was a running theme among unsatisfied visitors with Trojan P advising readers in June 2023 to 'just look at your wristwatch' instead.

Striking a similar note, Daniel B boasted that his Apple Watch was far better than Big Ben as it could take his pulse, which the landmark at the Palace of Westminster hopelessly failed in doing.

He added: 'Please upgrade the bell so that a coo coo bird comes out each hour, or change the bell sound to 50 Cent.'

Laird Cook had travelled all the way down from Inverness in Scotland to see Big Ben, or more accurately Elizabeth Tower for Big Ben is the name of the bell inside, but was left bitterly disappointed by the popular attraction.

He said: 'Big Ben, a big clock tower attached to the Houses of Parliament, chimes every now and again...if you want to see Big Ben look it up on Internet looks much better without all the rush of tourists with selfie sticks!

'Could do with a few birds of prey to kill the pigeons!'

And Ferdie G simply dismissed the building's quintessential gothic revival architecture as 'mid', adding that it 'would be better if it was digital as [it is] quite hard to read'.

Some 764 people have taken to the travel website to give Big Ben a 'terrible' 1-star review and to give their constructive criticism

Big Ben underwent an £80million restoration scheme for five years between 2017 and 2022 and the presence of scaffolding and teams of builders ruined the aesthetic for hundreds of visitors to London during this time.

Aimee T visited before the works, back in May 2014, and felt short changed by the clock tower's height.

'So I went last week to the famous "Big Ben",' she said. 'Let me tell you we should rename it Medium Ben. I've seen bigger Lego towers! Will return if they build it higher.'

Big Ben has made many appearances in popular culture, including the futuristic 2005 thriller V for Vendetta, where parliament is destroyed in the film's final act.

Iliya M disliked the landmark so much that he wished the movie's ending was real.

He said: 'Absolutely terrible I would never ever go again I'm glad they blew it up in V for Vendetta.

Big Ben underwent an £80million restoration scheme (pictured) for five years between 2017 and 2022 and the presence of scaffolding and teams of builders ruined the aesthetic for hundreds of visitors to London during this time

Everyone might refer to the iconic structure as Big Ben but it is actually called the Elizabeth Tower - Big Ben is the hidden bell inside the building (pictured: the bell and Lindsay Hoyle, speaker of the House of Commons)

Big Ben has made many appearances in popular culture, including the futuristic 2005 thriller V for Vendetta (pictured), where parliament is destroyed in the film's final act

The building's location, with striking views of the Thames, Westminster Bridge and the London Eye, is one of the main reasons tourists flock from all over the world to look at the large clock but Josh found the banks of the river to be too close for comfort

Daniel B said: 'Please upgrade the bell so that a coo coo bird comes out each hour, or change the bell sound to 50 Cent'

The harsh critic suggested that his smartwatch was a lot better than Big Ben as it could measure its pulse, unlike the old-fashioned tower

'It's just a big clock and the whole experience left me unsettled.'

The building's location, with striking views of the Thames, Westminster Bridge and the London Eye, is one of the main reasons tourists flock from all over the world to look at the large clock but Josh found the banks of the river to be too close for comfort.

'Lovely clock but I fell into the river when I was looking at the tower and I fell over the side into the freezing cold Thames,' he said.