Maya Jama made the most of a fleeting trip back home as she attended London Fashion Week ahead of the Love Island: All Stars final in South Africa on Monday.

The presenter, 29, stunned on the first day of LFW on Friday, having made the long haul flight just days before the current series of Love Island ends.

Maya stunned at the Chet Lo show, and was completely covered up in a long-sleeved, floor length black dress.

The dress was covered in soft spikes and fitted the star perfectly, showcasing her famous hourglass figure.

Her look was complete with a pair of pointy black heels and the red scrunchie Maya held made a stark contrast to her outfit.

Maya Jama, 29, made a fleeting trip back home for London Fashion Week as she attended the Chet Lo show on Friday

The presenter stunned at the first day, making the long haul flight just days before the current series of Love Island ends

Maya stunned at the Chet Lo show, completely covered up in a long-sleeved, floor length black dress

Her Charles & Keith shoes and bag were finally visible when Maya sat down with drag queen Bimini who stunned in a semi-sheer black body suit and blonde bouffant hair.

The man of the hour Chet Lo ran down the runway to the crowd's delight - wearing a jumper in the same material as Maya's dress.

Chet is an Asian American designer, gradating from Central Saint Martins BA Knitwear course only in 2020.

Also in attendance was filmmaker and model Betty Bachz who posed with Bee Beardsworth, an editorial director.

Maya has been seizing the opportunity to catch up with boyfriend Stormzy with the two enjoying a romantic date earlier in the week.

It was a brief trip home amid claims Love Island bosses banned her from leaving South Africa during filming.

Last year, Maya and her 'glam squad' made a 12,000-mile round trip to host just ten minutes of Love Island – despite ITV lecturing its viewers about cutting their carbon footprint.

This year the channel was said to have changed its format so Maya was banned from returning to the UK from the Cape Town set in between episodes.

However, a source denied that this was the case for Maya, telling MailOnline that Maya was free to travel and had told production of her plans.

The dress was covered in soft spikes and fitted the star perfectly, showcasing her famous hourglass figure

Her look was complete with a pair of pointy black heels and the red scrunchie Maya held made a stark contrast to her outfit

Her Charles & Keith shoes and bag were finally visible when Maya sat down with drag queen Bimini who stunned in a semi-sheer black body suit and blonde bouffant hair

(L to R) Maya Jama, Bimini Bon Boulash, Sim0ne Murphy and Rahi Chadda all sitting in the front row

A source told The Daily Mail: 'ITV was mortified when it became apparent Maya had been jetting across the globe with her hairdresser, make-up artist and stylist.

'This year there is absolutely no chance of her being able to go anywhere.'

Maya is due back in South Africa on Monday night for the first-ever Love Island: All Stars finale.

Love Island kicked off on January 15 and now only six couples remain to battle it out for the £50,000 prize.

The man of the hour Chet Lo ran down the runway to the crowd's delight - wearing a jumper of the same material as Maya's dress

Also there was filmmaker and model Betty Bachz who posed with Bee Beardsworth, an editorial director