Australian rock legend Jimmy Barnes has opened up about his close brush with death and grave fears he wouldn't wake up from open heart surgery.

The Scottish-born former Cold Chisel front man, 67, has survived his fair share of health scares from his years of living life to the max and drug and alcohol addiction.

While previously it was others who were concerned about him, two months ago, he was just as worried as his family after he was struck down by a life-threatening infection that attacked his heart.

At one point while lying in Sydney's St Vincent's Hospital, a gravely-ill Barnes told his wife Jane, 'I don't think I'm gonna make it'.

'I just had this horrible morbid feeling because I've never felt this sick before. I thought I was gone,' he told 60Minutes.

Hours before checking into hospital, an unwell Barnes took to the stage at a memorial concert for his late friend and promoter, Michael Gudinski.

At one point, in Sydney's St Vincent's Hospital Jimmy Barnes (left) told his wife Jane (right) 'I don't think I'm gonna make it'

Though he had been feeling very unwell the night before checking himself into the hospital, Barnes still played at a memorial concert (pictured) for late friend Michael Gudinski

READ MORE: Jimmy Barnes makes big announcement two months after undergoing open heart surgery Jimmy Barnes is pictured in hospital Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/60minutes/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

The pain of performing because he didn't want to let anyone down was clear to see in footage of the concert - not that you could tell from his powerful voice on the night.

Barnes was so ill, he barely remembers the show.

'I was really bad. And even though I felt like I could hardly walk, I just had to get there,' he said.

Backstage, he was sweating and had a fever. '

'There was a lot of pain. My back was really sore ... I was struggling to walk. I don't know how I got through it,' Barnes recalled.

'As soon as I came off, I sort of virtually collapsed.'

Barnes was scheduled to fly abroad for a another concert the next morning but instead went to the hospital as her health continued to deteriorate.

'He could easily have said 'I'll just sleep on the plane, I'll sleep it off,'' Jane recalled

'If he had done that this time, I don't know that he'd be with us.'

Barnes explained what led to him making that fateful decision to go to St Vincent's instead of than Sydney Airport.

'I got out of bed and I was in so much pain. I was wheezing, I had a fever (and I thought) I just can't do it.'

Though he'd had a bad back on and off for years, he didn't know what was wrong this time. He just knew it couldn't be ignored.

When his children heard their father was in hospital, they immediately knew it was serious.

'For him to pull the plug (and say) 'I'm going to the hospital', is a big deal,' his eldest son, Today Extra host David Campbell said.

Daughter Mahalia added: 'I've been worried about him at many points, but I don't think I've been more worried for him and for all of us as I was through December.'

Campbell said he called his dad's wife and Jane and she said 'This is not good. It doesn't feel good at all'.

'So he'd gone from feeling like 'I'm letting people down,' to 'something's wrong and I don't know what's happening with my body'.

'And it was starting to scare him. I think he was scared. And he said 'I think I'm dying.''

At St Vincent's Hospital, what Barnes thought might be pneumonia turned out to be much worse.

A team of specialists found the rocker's body was shutting down because an infection in his blood was causing endocarditis - a life-threatening inflammation of the heart

'It's fatal. If he didn't die of the infection, he would've died from heart failure, from the whole valve falling apart,' cardiothoracic surgeon Dr Paul Jansz said.

Jimmy Barnes (left) is pictured with his wife Jane (right) after open heart surgery

Jimmy Barnes shows the scar left by his open heart surgery, with a tattoo of his wife Jane's name also visible

Jimmy Barnes and his wife Jane are pictured. She barely left his side during his 26 days in hospital

By the time he was wheeled into the operating theatre for open heart surgery, his doctors said he had just hours to live.

'When I contemplated dying before surgery, I just thought, 'You have to savour those moments; have I told my children that I love 'em enough? Have I told Jane? The people you love, make sure you tell 'em,'' Barnes said.

In a marathon seven-hour surgery, the physicians replaced Barnes' damaged valves and repaired his heart.

He got through the surgery, but the pain when he woke up was like nothing he had ever felt before.

'It's like you've been ripped in half,' he said. 'Your best friend is a pillow. If you cough, it's just agony. If you breathe too deep, it's agony. And sneezing would be the end of you.

'But I think it's made me stronger. I want to be better than I was. I've got all this new life from this and I want to make the best of it. I want every minute to count.'

Barnes has gained a new appreciation for some of the simpler things in life, such as having Sunday lunch with family.

He is full of gratitude for his doctors and his wife, who barely left his side during his 26 days in hospital.

'Without a doubt, the fact that my family were there and Jane was there, I wasn't going anywhere. I wanted to spend every breath I could spend with Jane. And if that meant fighting to live longer, I was going to do it,' he said.

Barnes has gained a new appreciation for some of the simpler things in life, such as having Sunday lunch with family (pictured with some of his grandchildren)

Having had open heart surgery doesn't mean Barnes (pictured) has to avoid a fruit salad

Amazingly, his recovery is going to well, Barnes is set to make his live music return on Easter Sunday at the Byron Bay Bluesfest.

When asked about this quick comeback by 60 Minutes reporter Sylvia Jeffreys, Barnes held his arms out like a crucifix and joked that it would be the day of his resurrection.

'I miss being on stage, I have to do it, I don't have a choice. I need to get out there and scream, it just clears the emotions out of you,' he said.