Kin (Lyttelton, National Theatre, London)

Verdict: Oddly enjoyable; and enjoyably odd

Rating:

Leaves Of Glass (Park Theatre, Finsbury Park, London)

Verdict: Pitch dark Ridley

Rating:

Astonishing news just in at the National Theatre: most of us come from all over the world.

This revelation may, of course, prove less than surprising to devotees of the BBC prime-time show Who Do You Think You Are? I, for example, am of Irish stock, following my Norman ancestors' illegal invasion of England in 1066, which entailed pillaging various parts of Britain, before heading West for the rain.

Gecko Theatre Company, on the other hand, is a multinational performance outfit which has devised an impressive, high-energy dance piece to illustrate its members' own cultural diversity, via their ancestors' peregrinations through the 20th century.

Now enjoying a stint at the National Theatre, they hail from as far afield as Hong Kong, Colombia, Israel and Norway, but together exude a mittel-European, vegan mime vibe.

Gecko Theatre Company is a multinational performance outfit which has devised an impressive, high-energy dance piece to illustrate its members' own cultural diversity, via their ancestors' peregrinations through the 20th century

Now enjoying a stint at the National Theatre, they hail from as far afield as Hong Kong, Colombia, Israel and Norway, but together exude a mittel-European, vegan mime vibe

Much more interesting than the jumbled, repetitive and often bamboozling story, though, is the spectacle itself

Their 80-minute epic opens with Jewish emigrés in Latin America in the 1930s, and ends with the performers wearing orange life-jackets in solidarity with the boat refugees exploited by brutal people smugglers today.

Much more interesting than the jumbled, repetitive and often bamboozling story, though, is the spectacle itself.

Unusually for this kind of didactic disquisition, it's very high spirited. Rather than gloomily reprimanding the audience, it's a manic, often elegant — even joyful — cartoon account of people crossing continents and struggling with racial intolerance.

The refugees are presented as sweet, resilient, slightly competitive creatures inclined to break out into vibrantly choreographed dance routines — even while watching the newly popularised television sets of the 1960s.

Developed over three years by director Amit Lahav (an Israeli-born Londoner, by way of Yemen and Palestine), the often mesmerising performance is set to minimalist Michael Nyman-ish music, with added wailing, drumming and the shrieking trumpets of Hispanic fiestas.

But as we travel the world with the cast of eight, sometimes all speaking (loudly) in their native tongues, Chris Swain's (cultural etymology unknown) directional lighting picks out the actors in ever-changing costumes, as if in a dream. There is squabbling, protesting and a lot of queuing at border controls — but even these queues fizz with excitement.

So yes, it's a somewhat worthy tale of displacement, exclusion and integration by arts centre refugees. But it's also a hymn to the human spirit and its perpetual state of flux.

Meanwhile, in Finsbury Park, it's white English working class all the way. The event is the return of last year's exceptionally acted revival of Philip Ridley's merciless 2007 drama, excavating a sinister history of abuse in an East End family.

Steeped in guilt, shame and grief, the play is plotted with forensic detail and is an increasingly unnerving experience as it tightens its icy grip.

Despite running at an hour and 50 minutes with no interval, it's the theatrical equivalent of a page-turner. Time raced by for me in the story of graffiti removal businessman Steve, who seeks to manage his disturbed artist brother, take care of his iron-willed mum, and placate his wary pregnant wife. And all in the shadow of his reclusive father's unexplained death.

Max Harrison's production in this tiny 90-seater theatre is rigorously directed on Kit Hinchcliffe's spartan set of a black patent square, four benches and a handful of props.

Kacey Ainsworth is a proper East End mum, steeped in denial and enforcing her rule with strategically dispensed biscuits; while Katie Eldred, as Steve's young wife, fumes with suspicion.

Ned Costello, as the man in the middle of it all, is a seriously impressive young actor with the dangerous look of a Roman Emperor (maybe Caligula). Though steadily wrung out by the plot, he looks set to be a star.

Joseph Potter as little bro Barry — caught between alcoholism and manic depression — impresses, too. I warned you it was dark.

Circus daredevils win my 'Sweaty Palm d'Or' award

BY GEORGINA BROWN

Alegria (Royal Albert Hall)

Verdict: Nobody does it better

Rating:

I thought I was done with Cirque du Soleil. Spectacular but soulless.

But this revamp of an old show, Alegria — Spanish for elation — scales new heights, new extremes. They've got their mojo back.

This time, it's exhilaratingly dangerous. And sexy. Not all the time, but enough to satisfy.

For the finale, the safety net is rolled out. High above our heads, in the biggest big top in London, the trapeze artists swing like swifts swooping for insects. Then they hurl themselves into the void, almost freezing in flight, to be caught by another. My heart was in my mouth. These are peerless winners of my Sweaty Palm d'Or award.

While some defy gravity, others expand the possibilities of human anatomy. Two women contortionists slide, eel-like, in a double act of sensuality, as though neither has a bone in her body.

I thought I was done with Cirque du Soleil. Spectacular but soulless. But this revamp of an old show, Alegria — Spanish for elation — scales new heights, new extremes

In another, two exquisitely alluring Russians plunge, lunge and swivel on ropes in an aerial dance as erotic as it is athletic, climaxing in a kiss, lips meeting as one hangs from the other's neck.

In between the acts come the clowns — ghosts of circuses past — waddling androgynous grotesques with wacky wigs and wonky breasts. Overgrown infants, they blow raspberries, screech gobbledigook, cackle and tumble.

A pair of Stan and Ollie types squabble and sulk, break up and make up. Their purpose, I suppose, is to bring us back to earth with a very human bump before the next jaw-dropping performance of god-like daredevilry. But for a magic moment when they conjure up a blizzard of snow, I could have done without them.

Much more exciting is the team of trampoliners, hurtling like missiles. Or the mesmerising, fire-powered Samoan who juggles flaming torches which he licks, caresses and rests on the soles of his feet, and leaves behind him the pungent smell of petrol. So you know you didn't dream it.