Apple's $3,500 Vision Pro transformed the small space of an airplane cabin into an office, letting a user work and watch movies during a five-hour flight.

Amit Gupta recently purchased the mix-reality headset and took it for a test on a Southwest flight.

He shared a video of the experience on X, showing webpages and a television display projected on the seatback in front and the ceiling.

Gupta hailed the technology for providing a workspace that felt less crowded and providing more privacy.

However, Gupta shared that he is not '100 percent' sure he will keep the Vision Pro.

ok ya'll convinced me. i'm that guy



sitting here in coach on southwest with a giant monitor in front of me, watching a movie overhead. i love this.



Observations

- nice to be able to use my MacBook keyboard with the display mostly closed, with drinks on my tray table. feels less… https://t.co/FVF4fLhs0b pic.twitter.com/2HqvDfE8OK — Amit Gupta (@superamit) February 3, 2024

An Apple VisionPro user hailed the device on his Southwest Airlines flight

The VisionPro user showed a first-person account of the screen projected onto the seatback in front of him

'Worth trying in store first, imo. I'm still not 100% I'm keeping it, but it's feeling more likely than yesterday,' Gupta commented on his own post.

He noted that the weight of the Vision Pro was an issue during the flight - he needed to take a break from wearing after two hours of use.

However, the device only provides two hours of power on a single charge.

There is an external battery pack to keep it going longer.

The Vision Pro lets users observe the real world while also navigating their digital apps using their eyes, voice, and hands without the need for controllers.

That is achieved through what Apple calls 'spatial computing,' which is a way to describe the intersection between the physical world around us and a virtual world fabricated by technology while enabling humans and machines to harmoniously manipulate objects and spaces.

Wearers can watch movies, scroll through the internet and work on digital screens without ever touching a digital device - and that is what Gupta experienced on a flight.

The video, shared from his perspective, shows a projection of a computer monitor on the seatback, while Gupta used a MacBook keyboard that sat on the tray table.

However, Vision Pro allows users to access digital keyboards. It is unclear why Gupta opted for a physical one.

The small space on the five-hour was flight turned into a small office using the the headset, which was complete with an entertainment center on the ceiling of the cabin.

Apple's VisionPro went on sale in the U.S. on Friday with a starting price of $3,499

Apple sold out of its VisionPro pre-orders on January 19, selling 200,000 devices

While Gupta was watching a Disney film on the overhead screen, it was blocked from the footage due to digital rights management.

'Movies are the thing Apple Vision Pro is best at by far. apple's theater really makes it feel like you're in a movie theater. I hope all the streaming apps adopt it,' he shared when asked about the movie experience.

However, Gupta noted that the stream was 'a little laggy.'

The video also showed him move from different web pages, documents and other controls seamlessly.

Without physical controllers, Vision Pro wearers rely on their eyes to move the digital cursor, but Gupta said he was using his MacBook keyboard.

Users focus on an area to access or use hand gestures such as pinching, which is similar to zooming in and out on an iPhone or iPad.

One downfall of the flight was that Gupta had to pay the Wi-Fi fee for two devices - his MacBook and the Vision Pro.

The VisionPro headset projects your full monitor on a big screen, freeing up space

The Vision Pro operates on only two hours of use with an external battery to lessen the headset’s weight, and because it can’t be used as a standalone device, the Vision Pro must be plugged into its battery pack or an outlet.

The headset runs on VisionOS, which Apple has touted as 'the world’s first spatial operating system,' and is set to bring more than one million apps from both its iOS and iPad OS systems to play games, stream movies, and view pictures and videos, all through the headset.

VisionPro users can view movies, photos, and videos on a big screen in front of them

Apple sold out of its VisionPro pre-orders on January 19, selling 200,000 devices, and officially went on sale on Friday.

The cost of the device starts at $3,499 for 256GB of storage, but jumps to $3,699 to add on 512GB and is further increased to $3,899 for 1TB of storage.

Buyers could also purchase other add-ons like prescription inserts for an additional $149.

Ahead of the release, Apple announced that it designed more than 600 new apps for the Vision Pro headset.

Susan Prescott, Apple's vice president of Worldwide Developer Relations, said: 'Apple Vision Pro is unlocking the imaginations of our worldwide developer community, and we're inspired by the range of spatial experiences they've created for this exciting new platform.’

She added: ‘These incredible apps will change how we experience entertainment, music, and games; spark our imaginations with new ways to learn and explore; unlock productivity like never before; and so much more.’