He will wear the jersey of France on Sunday but he plays for all of us - like the very greatest of sportsmen, a Pele or an Ali, there can be no boundaries.

That is exactly how I feel about Kylian Mbappe, the 19-year-old destined to be the new global king of our beautiful game.

You hear about some wonderkid or other, you glimpse shots of him doing clever things in big matches; there is the mindboggling transfer to PSG then the World Cup stage and you acknowledge we are watching someone truly unique.

France star Kylian Mbappe is destined to be the new global king of our beautiful game

Some of Mbappe's performances at the World Cup have evoked memories of Brazil legend Pele

It was the same the first time I watched Pele, then a 17-year-old playing in a World Cup final. He was captivating then and that initial impression never changed.

Pele was prodigious, a one-off. He played for Brazil but surely we all thought he came from another planet.

There have been awesome talents since, Johann Cruyff, Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi for sure but for me, and I suspect the majority who grew up with him, only one Pele.

Roll the years forward and the penny clicks again - the look, the style, the speed, the control, truly out of this world. Mbappe.

Mbappe is truly out of this world with his style, speed and control tormenting defenders

The young Frenchman will know of Pele of course. Thanks to modern technology he will have been able to watch videos of the great man at work, going back all the way to the final of ‘58 which most of us peered at on little screens in black and white.

Mbappe as a person is a stranger to me but he comes across as Pele did. For all the honours and idolatry bestowed on him, Pele was no big-time Charlie but modest with fame.

Mbappe appears to have that similar calm outlook on life, certainly on the field, and that is the only way I can judge him. I like the look.

His football skill is what matters most and is wonderfully similar to Pele’s, devastating to the opposition; unstoppable, unmatchable, performed at frightening but controlled speed of feet and mind and at its peak unplayable.

Like Pele, Mbappe is extremely skillful and also knows how to protect himself under pressure

Like Pele he knows intuitively how to protect himself and in doing that generally wins the advantage.

He knows what he can do, what he wants to do, which basically is what every other player wants to do but struggles to and most can’t get near.

The effect Pele had on the game worldwide and on professionals like myself was considerable and in time it will be the same I think for Mbappe.

Every opportunity I have had to watch Pele live I have taken, going back to ‘66. I failed to make Sir Alf’s final England squad but I made the trip to Goodison to watch Brazil and Pele, lose as it happens, to Portugal.

LAST FIVE WORLD CUP GOLDEN BALL WINNERS 2014 - Lionel Messi (Argentina) 2010 - Diego Forlan (Uruguay) 2006 - Zinedine Zidane (France) 2002 - Oliver Kahn (Germany) 1998 - Ronaldo (Brazil) Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sport/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

There is a lesson here too that proves how quickly teams can emerge from defeat. The ‘66 Brazil team wasn’t their best, they did not get out of their group and Pele was hammered into the turf by the roughest of tackling.

Four years later we watched mesmerised by what I consider to be the greatest Brazil team of them all, it means the best ever, led by Pele and his attack partner Tostao, the original and most brilliant fox in the box.

Mbappe is turning heads now with runs like we have witnessed in Russia - from one 18-yard line to the other at speed and, as I have said, runs that are unplayable. There are the flicks, the shots, the goals. It is the speed of it all under Mbappe’s control that is the key.

There have never been faster, pacier finals; rarely have we admired more athletic, super-fit footballers. In my professional lifetime we have gone from subbuteo football of the fifties to Formula One speed. It is epitomised by the opener between Spain and Portugal, a 3-3 draw that left the world game breathless as the marker for what we have seen game after game.

The effect Pele had on the game has been considerable and it could be the same for Mbappe

What has happened has been evolutionary rather than revolutionary. It has developed by players being convinced, forced, by their coaches that to be better, to win the prizes it can be achieved not just by being comfortable with the ball but if they are also faster and fitter than the opposition.

Malcolm Allison my old friend, now gone, brought in Derek Ibbotson, the great British middle distance runner, to introduce Olympian standards of fitness AND speed to the Manchester City team Malcolm coached with Joe Mercer.

When Malcolm and myself joined forces at Crystal Palace we had the same Beat the Clock training ideals. I used another Olympian Ron Jones as I have said in previous columns to make footballers train with 220m sprints.

They hated it at Palace, Queens Park Rangers, Barcelona and Tottenham. They hated it until they realised they had become so fit they could whistle in training just as Mo Farah now can when he is demolishing world records and winning gold medals.

It is time to relax, sit back and enjoy a Final that others can worry and fret about. There is enough talent, in prospect at least, to illuminate the brilliance of our game.

Terry Venables was talking to Alex Montgomery