Tom Hiddleston was incredibly grateful to win the People's Choice Award for his hit Marvel series Loki.

The show won Sci-fi/Fantasy Show of the Year for Loki, beating Ahsoka, American Horror Story: Delicate, Black Mirror, Ghosts, Secret Invasion, The Mandalorian and The Witcher.

The actor took to the stage in a stylish grey suit as he headed up on stage to accept the award.

'Thank you so much. I am so grateful for this great honor. It is such a privilege to receive this people's choice award from you,' he began.

'The audience. The people for whom we make this work and who allow us to do what we do. I'm so proud of season two of "Loki," as a performer and producer,' he said to applause.

Tom Hiddleston was incredibly grateful to win the People's Choice Award for his hit Marvel series Loki

The actor took to the stage in a stylish grey suit as he headed up on stage to accept the award

People's Choice Awards 2024 Winners At a Glance

Music Male artist of the year: Jung Kook (WINNER) Female artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Male country artist of the year: Jelly Roll (WINNER) Female country artist of the year: Lainey Wilson (WINNER) Male Latin artist of the year: Bad Bunny (WINNER) Female Latin artist of the year: Shakira (WINNER) Pop artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Hip-hop artist of the year: Nicki Minaj (WINNER) R&B artist of the year: Beyoncé (WINNER) New artist of the year: Ice Spice (WINNER) Group/duo of the year: Stray Kids (WINNER) Song of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, “Vampire” (WINNER) Album of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, Guts (WINNER) Collaboration song of the year: Nicki Minaj & Ice Spice with Aqua, “Barbie World” (WINNER) Concert tour of the year: Taylor Swift, The Eras Tour (WINNER) Movies Movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Action movie of the year: The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Drama movie of the year: Oppenheimer (WINNER) Male movie star of the year: Ryan Gosling, Barbie (WINNER) Female movie star of the year: Margot Robbie, Barbie (WINNER) Margot Robbie is a leading contender for female movie star of the year for Barbie Action movie star of the year: Rachel Zegler, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie star of the year: Jennifer Lawrence, No Hard Feelings (WINNER) Drama movie star of the year Jenna Ortega, Scream VI (WINNER) Movie performance of the year America Ferrera, Barbie (WINNER) TV Show of the year: Grey’s Anatomy (WINNER) Comedy show of the year: Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Drama show of the year: The Last of Us (WINNER) Sci-fi/fantasy show of the year: Loki (WINNER) Reality show of the year: The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition show of the year: The Voice (WINNER) Bingeworthy show of the year: The Summer I Turned Pretty (WINNER) Male TV star of the year: Pedro Pascal, The Last of Us (WINNER) Female TV star of the year: Selena Gomez, Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Comedy TV star of the year: Jeremy Allen White, The Bear (WINNER) Drama TV star of the year: Jennifer Aniston, The Morning Show (WINNER) TV performance of the year Billie Eilish, Swarm (WINNER) Reality TV star of the year Khloé Kardashian, The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition contestant of the year Ariana Madix, Dancing with the Stars (WINNER) Daytime talk show of the year The Kelly Clarkson Show (WINNER) Nighttime talk show of the year The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon (WINNER) Host of the year Jimmy Fallon, That’s My Jam (WINNER) Pop Culture Social celebrity of the year Taylor Swift (WINNER) Comedy act of the year Chris Rock, Selective Outrage (WINNER) Athlete of the year Travis Kelce (WINNER) Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

'I must say, I share this with the hundreds of brilliant artists who help to make Loki what it was,' he added.

The actor went on to thank directors, Aaron Moorehead, department heads Chris Townsend. Eric Martin, Michelle Blood and Richard Graves and editor Paul Zucker.

'Thank you for steering the ship with such leadership. To my fellow actors. None of this makes sense without you. Thank you for your love and support,' he added.

'Quickly, I have played Loki for 14 years. I couldn't have done it without you,' Hiddleston said to the fans.

'Your passion, curiosity, and your love for Loki is the reason I'm standing here. Thank you so much,' he concluded.

Loki debuted in June 2021, and was quickly renewed for a second season, which debuted in October 2023.

The second season debuted in October, and became the second-most-viewed season premiere on the Disney Plus streaming service.

The premiere racked up 10.9 million views globally after three days streaming on Disney Plus.

'I must say, I share this with the hundreds of brilliant artists who help to make Loki what it was,' he added

The actor went on to thank directors, Aaron Moorehead, department heads Chris Townsend. Eric Martin, Michelle Blood and Richard Graves and editor Paul Zucker

'Thank you for steering the ship with such leadership. To my fellow actors. None of this makes sense without you. Thank you for your love and support,' he added

'Your passion, curiosity, and your love for Loki is the reason I'm standing here. Thank you so much,' he concluded.

Loki debuted in June 2021, and was quickly renewed for a second season, which debuted in October 2023

The second season debuted in October, and became the second-most-viewed season premiere on the Disney Plus streaming service

The premiere was just behind the season three premiere of The Mandalorian, which hit Disney Plus in March.

Since appearing in 2011's Thor, Loki has become one of the most beloved characters in the entire Marvel Universe.

He has starred in major blockbusters like 2012's "The Avengers," has a popular merchandise collection.

The show has not yet been renewed for a third season on Disney Plus quite yet.