Manchester City are expected to finalise the signing of midfielder Claudio Echeverri from River Plate when the Argentinian transfer window opens on January 25 for £12m plus add-ons.

Echeverri, 18, will also return to River Plate on loan.

City, who travel to Abu Dhabi on Thursday for warm weather training, are exploring the market for another winger with Wolves' Pedro Neto among those on their radar.

Savio, who is performing well on loan at Girona, also well liked.

Napoli's Khvicha Kvaratskhelia has been watched for the past year but his levels have dropped slightly in recent months.

Manchester City are set to sign River Plate teenager Claudio Echeverri before loaning him out

Wolves' Pedro Neto (right) is another who is on City's radar as they look to bolster their attack

Your browser does not support iframes.

Agents clamour for Manchester United starlet

A number of agents have been making their pitch to Manchester United prospect Dan Gore with the promise of finding him a club on loan.

The 19-year-old has made a first-team breakthrough this season figuring from the bench against Crystal Palace and Aston Villa after impressing coaching staff. However, there's an acceptance he needs regular competitive games to kick on to the next stage and United will consider loan proposals.

The midfielder, who is among a clutch of players due to attend warm weather training in Dubai this week, is represented by his family but big agencies have been circling looking to sign him on with the promise of finding him a new platform from which to build.

Dan Gore has several agents hoping to sign him with the promise of securing a loan move away

Championship sides have been touted but it's understood most genuine interest has come from League One clubs with high-flying Bolton Wanderers, Blackpool, Shrewsbury Town and Fleetwood among those keen to take him. Bolton proved ideal for Liverpool prospect Conor Bradley last season.

United confirmed the departure of Hannibal Mejbri to Sevilla on Monday, with full-back Alvaro Fernandez set to join Benfica. Both are leaving on loan with options to buy and an option to buy-back. PSV Eindhoven remain in the hunt for Facundo Pellistri while Dutch side NEC Nijmegen have also enquired.

Striker Anthony Martial looks increasingly likely to see out his contract as he is not convinced by options available to him this window.

United sources have also dismissed suggestions of a possible loan move for Karim Benzema at Al-Ittihad amid reports he is unsettled in Saudi Arabia. Chelsea have the likes of Benzema and Al Ahli's Roberto Firmino on their list of possible short term solutions for their attack but talks have yet to advance and will not be straightforward.

United want a top striker and maintain interest in Crystal Palace forward Michael Olise ahead of the summer when his buyout clause may come into play. They also had scouts at Everton against Aston Villa on Sunday to check on Jarrad Branthwaite's continued progress.

Anthony Martial has no plans to leave Manchester United during this window, despite interest

Aston Villa eye Serbian starlet

Aston Villa are in talks to sign right back Kosta Nedeljkovic from Red Star Belgrade.

The 18-year-old is a Serbia U19 international and will cost around £8million with a 15 percent sell-on clause being negotiated.

Nedeljkovic only made his first team breakthrough last summer and is expected to stay with Red Star until the end of the season and is viewed as one for the future.

Unai Emery confirmed last week that Calum Chambers is free to leave the club, while Villa have Matty Cash and Ezri Konsa as options to play at right-back. They also recalled 21-year-old Kaine Kesler-Hayden from his loan at Plymouth this weekend.

Aston Villa are in talks to sign Kosta Nedeljkovic from Red Star Belgrade in an £8million deal

Is it the American dream for Jesse Lingard?

Jesse Lingard's new agents have been exploring possibilities in the MLS market over the weekend with Portland Timbers among those sounded out.

Lingard has changed his representatives as he strives to find a new club. He has been a free agent since leaving Nottingham Forest in the summer and, while he has trained with West Ham and Al Ettifaq, clubs have found it difficult to come to an agreement over a deal for the 31-year-old. Lingard has been training hard in the gym and hopes to convince suitors with his new management.

The MLS holds an interest with the likes of Portland understood to be one of the clubs monitoring Lingard.

Jesse Lingard new agents have sounded out the Portland Timbers over a potential move there

Bonjour, Bruno?

Paris Saint-Germain are monitoring developments with Newcastle United midfielder Bruno Guimaraes amid the North East club's financial concerns.

Newcastle are hamstrung in their plans to recruit so are contemplating selling some of their established players to offset what is required to strengthen the squad.

Bruno has a £100million release clause and Newcastle are still to receive an approach. Other players could yet be moved on as they need the financial freedom to obtain targets such as Manchester City's Kalvin Phillips.

The England midfielder has interest from Crystal Palace and Fulham among others. Juventus, who have considered Jordan Henderson, have gone cool and the opportunity would have been ideal for Newcastle if they can find room for manoeuvre with sales.

PSG are keeping tabs on midfielder Bruno Guimaraes amid Newcastle's financial concerns

Serie A interest in Plymouth playmaker

Plymouth Argyle's Morgan Whittaker has been attracting plenty of interest from top-flight sides and rival cubs in the Championship this season.

The attacking midfielder scored his seventh goal in seven games and his 15th of he season against Huddersfield Town at the weekend.

Among those represented in the stands was Italian side Atalanta who had English scout Mick Doherty watching. Doherty joined Atalanta from West Ham this season and is the man recognised for discovering Everton captain Seamus Coleman.

Plymouth's Morgan Whittaker (left) has caught the eye of English top-flight clubs and abroad

West Ham set for a busy window

West Ham would want a fee for defender Ben Johnson as the full-back attracts enquiries from rival clubs.

The England U21 international has not accepted terms on new contract proposals and his deal is due to expire this summer. West Ham ideally need to generate fees for the likes of Johnson and Said Benrahma to aid their search for attacking reinforcements.

Leeds hold an interest in Johnson though it's understood have yet to make an official approach while Sheffield United and Rangers are also monitoring the 23-year-old.

West Ham don't want striker Divin Mubama going out on loan as it stands. The England U20 international, who has been monitored by Sunderland, West Brom and Everton, is another who is free in the summer that the club have offered a new contract to. David Moyes has injuries to Michail Antonio and Jarrod Bowen to contend with, although the latter is not as bad as first feared, and wants Mubama around. Danny Ings has interest from Wolves but that is one that may not develop until late in the window.

West Ham admire Santiago Gimenez at Feyenoord but that is considered unrealistic for this month with his price tag around £35million. Interest in Sunderland's Jack Clarke and Steven Bergwijn of Ajax has not progressed while head of recruitment Rob Newman is understood to be watching possible targets at the Africa Cup of Nations.

Ben Johnson (left) and Said Benrahma are two players West Ham are looking to raise funds for

Fulham defender wanted by both Milan giants

Inter Milan have joined city rivals AC by expressing interest in Fulham centre-back Tosin Adarabioyo.

The 26-year-old has yet to agree a new contract with Fulham so the Italian giants are free to speak to his entourage ahead of a potential summer move when he will become a free agent. Adarabioyo had Monaco and Tottenham on his trail last summer and remains one of the best options coming out of contract.

Fulham have been linked with interest in former Leicester City defender Caglar Soyuncu at Atletico Madrid. However, while there is Premier League interest, the Turkey centre-back won't be going to Fulham as it stands.

Tosin Adarabioyo is wanted by both AC and Inter Milan after impressing in Fulham's defence

Rooney returns to Everton's training ground to watch his son

Wayne Rooney created a buzz when he turned up at Everton's Finch Farm training ground last week.

The former Birmingham City manager is not considering a return to old club Everton though, he was there to give support to the latest budding talent to emerge from his family, seven-year-old son Kit who was turning out for Everton's Under Eights. Two of Rooney's other sons Kai and Klay have been turning out for Manchester United.

Wayne and his young family were altogether at Old Trafford on Sunday to watch Manchester United seniors against Tottenham.

Wayne Rooney (top centre) was at Everton last week to watch his son Kit play football

IT'S ALL KICKING OFF! It's All Kicking Off is an exciting new podcast from Mail Sport that promises a different take on Premier League football, with a show every Monday and Thursday this season. It is available on MailOnline, Mail+, YouTube , Apple Music and Spotify Your browser does not support iframes. Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sport/football/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Big day in the virtual world

The Transfer Room Virtual Deal Day takes place today where football's version of speed dating brings together representatives of up to 500 clubs across the globe to try and sell their wares.

The likes of Manchester United, Southampton, Roma, Montpellier and PSV Eindhoven are expected to be among those represented as they tap into an online zoom from around 12.30pm to around 6pm and share who they have available and share what positions they are looking for.

The Transfer Room process has been cited as key to Southampton signing Carlos Alcaraz from Racing Club in Argentina for £12m last year.