It's been billed as the 'ultimate safari'. And with some justification - because it costs £140,965 ($172,545) per person.

But for this eye-watering price tag, guests on the tour of Africa - by Go2Africa - will gather enough memories to last several lifetimes.

Go2Africa reveals that the 'expertly curated' itinerary, which took years to perfect, packs in six countries across 24 'action-packed' days, with the safari travel company declaring that 'no expense has been spared' on a trip that takes in some of the African continent's great wonders, from magnificent waterfalls to exclusive private islands.

And the accommodation? Luxurious to say the least, from glorious tented safari camps to riverside treetop villas and 'exclusive activities with experts you could only dream of meeting'. Not to mention 'some of the best nature the world has to offer'.

Tourists are guaranteed to see Africa's 'Big 5' along the way and will receive personalised and locally-made leather luggage before their trip, along with having the option of a private film crew to document the odyssey - so not a single moment is missed. Those booked on the trip will begin their three-week adventure in Nairobi, Kenya, enjoying a 'scenic' helicopter ride to the Masai Mara Nature Reserve.

Go2Africa has launched the 'ultimate safari', which costs £140,965 ($172,545) per person. Pictured is the Alfajiri Beach Villa in Kenya, where guests will stay for three nights

The three-level Alfajiri Beach Villa (pictured) at Diani Beach comes with a team of on-hand staff, consisting of a masseuse, chef and butler

Go2Africa says guests will spend three days enjoying the 'azure waters' and white sand of Diani Beach (pictured)

The first stop on the itinerary is Mara Plains, a 'luxury' tented camp in the Olare Motorogi Conservancy in the Masai Mara, booked out 'exclusively for your party'.

The head of the party will stay in the Jahazi Suite - 'intimate two-bedroom tented luxury' - which comes complete with a private swimming pool and an 'extensive outdoor verandah, offering incredible views of the steady stream of wildlife parading past'.

Here, guests will enjoy a sunrise hot air balloon excursion, giving them 'plenty of chance' to spot the African wildlife.

Go2Africa says breakfast will be ready once you land. The party can then hop in a safari vehicle and enjoy a gamedrive back to base.

Day three offers a private helicopter flight to Reteti Elephant Sanctuary.

Then it's a transfer to Alfajiri Beach Villa at Diani Beach, where there's plenty of time to relax and take in the 'azure waters' and white sand beaches.

Guests are guaranteed to see Africa's 'Big 5' along the way and will receive personalised and locally-made leather luggage before their trip

Guests will spend three nights in the 'luxury' Mara Plains (above) in the Masai Mara

'No expense is spared,' says Go2Africa about the 'perfectly curated' three-week experience. Pictured is a lion close to the Mara Plains camp

The three-level villa offers 'elevated views over the Indian Ocean, an expansive lawn and a sun-soaked swimming pool' as well as an on-hand team of staff, consisting of a masseuse, chef and butler.

For those not yet ready to rest, there are various activities available - including kite surfing, snorkelling, deep sea fishing and excursions to Kisite Marine National Park in traditional dhow sailing boats.

One week in, guests will 'travel via light aircraft to the Zambezi River in Zambia', and stay at Tongabezi Lodge for three nights in a private villa called the Dog House.

'The lodge guarantees spectacular views of the mighty Zambezi River from each window, sofa, bed and bath,' says Go2Africa.

One week in, guests will 'travel via light aircraft to the Zambezi River in Zambia ', and stay at Tongabezi Lodge (above)

Lap of luxury: The party will spend three nights in a private villa called the Dog House

Guests will enjoy spectacular views of Victoria Falls (pictured) during a helicopter trip dubbed 'The Flight Of the Angels'

On the second day travellers will take a helicopter ride known as 'The Flight Of the Angels'.

It begins at Victoria Falls and takes in the colossal Batoka Gorge before passing back over the Falls and onwards to the Upper Zambezi .

From there a brisk two-night stay in Cape Town, South Africa, follows.

After a business-class flight, guests will find themselves in the 'world-famous' Ellerman House, an original Cape Edwardian Mansion that Go2Africa says is a favourite among celebrities, including Meryl Streep and the Kardashians.

The party will spend two nights in the 'world-renowned' Ellerman House (above) in Cape Town. Go2Africa says it's a favourite among celebrities and has been enjoyed by the Kardashians and Meryl Streep

Guests will arrive at Ellerman House in style, around two weeks in, after taking a business-class flight from Zambia

Included in the stay is a private ocean safari of the Cape Town coastline, a full-day road trip in a Land Rover Discovery and a helicopter tour of the Cape Peninsula.

After almost two weeks exploring Go2Africa offers guests the opportunity to 'wind down' for three days at the Future Found Sanctuary, located just a short drive away in Hout Bay.

The seven-acre private estate is located 'at the tip of Africa'. Here guests are encouraged to enjoy various facilities and 'invigorating experiences', including foraging, yoga, breathwork and Tai Chi.

There's also a spa with a 'small hammam, two treatment rooms, a space for relaxing and a gym, as well as two pools, one heated and one filled with mountain spring water for invigorating cold plunges'.

After almost two weeks exploring Go2Africa offers guests the opportunity to 'wind down' for three days at the Future Found Sanctuary

The seven-acre private estate is located 'at the tip of Africa'. Here guests are encouraged to enjoy various facilities and 'invigorating experiences', including foraging, yoga, breathwork and Tai Chi

Edging towards the end of the itinerary, guests will fly to Singita Kwitonda Lodge for three nights.

It sits on the edge of Volcanoes National Park in Rwanda and here guests will have the chance to join a Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund researcher on a sustainable gorilla trek.

Go2Africa says: 'The lodge features luxurious suites with a private heated plunge pool, wellness treatment area, in-and-outdoor fireplaces and large timber-framed windows that welcome breathtaking scenery and volcano views inside.'

The penultimate experience involves taking a helicopter and a small aircraft to the Grumeti Game Reserve in the Serengeti. Guests will stay in the Singita Serengeti House 'at the heart of the bush' and enjoy a balloon safari adventure on their second day.

The Singita Kwitonda Lodge in Rwanda (pictured) offers 'luxurious suites with a private heated plunge pool, wellness treatment area, in-and-outdoor fireplaces and large timber-framed windows'. Guests will stay here for three nights

The party can join a Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund researcher on a sustainable gorilla trek during their stay in Rwanda

A journey by helicopter and small aircraft will bring guests to Singita Serengeti House in 'the heart of the bush' (above)

The tailored Go2Africa experience promises guests 'some of the best nature the world has to offer'. Pictured is the Serengeti National Park, Tanzania. Which is on the itinerary

Finally, the itinerary lists a flight via a Cessna Caravan light aircraft to the private island of Cousine in the Seychelles.

Apart from the staff Go2Africa says 'you'll not see another soul for miles', during the 'lavish and exclusive' three-day getaway to Cousine Resort.

The island, which is '100 per cent dedicated to nature conservation', offers a range of activities, including nature walks and snorkelling.

The final stop on the three-week journey is a visit to the private island of Cousine (above), where guests will stay at the 'lavish' Cousine Resort

Guests will spend three nights on Cousine Island (above), where Go2Africa promises 'you'll not see another soul for miles'

Lee-Anne Kock, Head of Product at Go2Africa, says: 'The Ultimate African Safari is a one-of-a-kind itinerary that we've spent years perfecting. Every activity, location and accommodation has been hand-selected by our team of local experts with decades of on-the-ground experience.

'The itinerary focuses on private and exclusive travel where we've crafted curated experiences that are unique to each destination.

'Guests won't just see Africa, but experience the heart of its culture as they visit each location and become involved in the community projects that make the continent so vibrant and welcoming.'

When booking on the safari, Go2Africa promises to 'partly offset the carbon footprint of your trip' by donating to various charities associated with the tour, including the Reteti Elephant Sanctuary and Singita conservation levy.

The Ultimate Safari has a 'first come first serve availability' with four dates available between July and December 2024. Prices vary from £146,775 to £146,775 per person.

For more information about the trip, visit Go2Africa.