Manchester City were close to their ideal XI against Copenhagen in midweek

Chelsea should be worried by Kevin De Bruyne and Phil Foden's partnership

The problem for Chelsea is Manchester City have so many ways in which they can kill your chances of escaping the Etihad Stadium with anything except a defeat.

Death by a thousand passes? Not a problem. Direct into Erling Haaland? Just as lethal, as he showed in shrugging off a rising defender in Jarrad Branthwaite to score against Everton last week.

Equally as worrying for Chelsea is the blossoming partnership between Kevin De Bruyne and Phil Foden.

For a long time, I’ve thought De Bruyne has a picture book in his mind that only he can read. Passes to be played. Movements to be made. Ways in which even the most determined defence can be unlocked.

But now, it feels as if Foden has gained access to that same artistic album and City are using that to their advantage.

Chelsea should be concerned by the partnership between Kevin De Bruyne and Phil Foden

John Stones moving from defence to midfield was key to Man City's victory over Copenhagen

Your browser does not support iframes.

The team that faced Copenhagen in the Champions League is getting very close to their best XI.

Key to that victory was how John Stones moved from defence to midfield to sit alongside Rodri, prompting Bernardo Silva to push further up the pitch.

That allowed De Bruyne to drift towards the right-hand side so he could link up with Foden.

For their first goal, the Englishman teed up the Belgian to score. For their third, De Bruyne repaid the compliment with a reverse pass which completed a one-two for Foden to complete the 3-1 win.

Chelsea on Saturday will be Foden’s 13th start in succession for City – his longest-ever run for the club – and the rhythm he has found is leading their title charge.

Chelsea are rivalling City in possession of the ball but not in what they do with it, and Mauricio Pochettino is still searching for the right formula.

Mauricio Pochettino is still searching for the right formula for what Chelsea do with the ball

Chelsea should not consider selling Conor Gallagher, because he is a one-man army

One player who he needs to use at No 10 – and who they should not consider selling this summer – is Conor Gallagher.

He is a one-man army. He will press and press and press. He will drop back into midfield to do his defensive duties.

Now he is making the right runs to get himself goals, his two against Crystal Palace securing their 3-1 win last week. I’d be amazed if another player covers as much ground as Gallagher on Saturday.

Pochettino may look to surround him with speed merchants to hurt City on the counter-attack.