Early this year, I reported how a young mother received an unwelcome – and unexpected – text on Christmas Day from the Department for Work & Pensions.

Sent at around eight o'clock in the morning, it said her entitlement to Personal Independence Payment (PIP) was being reviewed. The benefit is paid to those with long-term physical or medical conditions that make carrying out everyday tasks difficult.

Although PIP is not means tested, payments are subject to review. These reviews are often traumatic experiences, sometimes requiring a medical assessment to be carried out. They can also result in payments being stopped.

Festive spirit: According to the DWP, it sent 1,454 PIP award review texts on Christmas Day

The recipient, who struggles with mental health issues that are only controlled by strong epileptic medication, went into meltdown as soon as she read the text. She suffered a panic attack and anxiety issues that ruined the festive day for her and her family.

At the time, I asked the DWP whether it thought it was appropriate to send out such an insensitive text on a key family day of the year for so many people. I also asked how many texts it had sent on Christmas Day notifying PIP claimants of impending reviews.

Its press office responded by saying that the information I had requested was not available, other than through a Freedom of Information (FOI) request. Insensitively, it offered no comment on the poor timing of the text. Well, I made the FOI request and I finally got my answers a few days ago. According to the DWP, it sent 1,454 PIP award review texts on Christmas Day.

Of these, 68 related to an award coming to an end, triggering an automatic review. The remaining 1,386 were a result of a reported change in a person's circumstances, again requiring a payment review. The reader's text fell into the first camp. While the FOI response did not provide a defence of the tasteless Christmas texts, it said that they were for 'information only' and required no immediate action from recipients.

It also said all messages were automated and sent out during the working week (Monday to Friday).

It added: 'There is currently no mechanism built into the PIP system to exclude messages being sent on a specific date.' In light of the Christmas Day distress the text caused to our reader – and (no doubt) many other recipients – I think it is time for the DWP to reconfigure its 'PIP system'. No PIP review texts should ever go out on December 25, irrespective of what day Christmas falls on.

As for our reader's PIP review, it trundles on. All relevant documents have been sent to the DWP. Its decision is awaited.

Wise up about value of protection insurance

Protection insurance, which provides a financial comfort blanket in the event of serious illness, is both undersold and under bought.

Whether it is critical illness cover (which pays an agreed tax-free lump sum on a claim being successful), income protection (which pays a regular stream of tax-free income) or even bog standard life insurance, sales are pitifully low.

Why? Well, too few financial advisers can be bothered to sell such cover, preferring instead to look after rich people's investments and charge them hefty fees for the privilege of doing so.

Protect yourself: Few advisers bother to sell protection insurance so very few know it exists

Meanwhile, providers, a shy bunch, are far too reticent about promoting the cover – resulting in a great chunk of the public (young and old) having no idea that financial protection insurance even exists. The result of all this is that far too many households are ill-equipped to deal with the financial consequences of a breadwinner or home-maker suffering a serious illness.

In a nutshell, there is a yawning gap between what households have financial protection wise – and what they should have. This rather disturbing picture is confirmed by an informative piece of consumer research just published by CIExpert, a company which specialises in comparing the individual merits of critical illness policies offered by insurers.

CIExpert asked the public – right across the age spectrum, from Gen Z through to baby-boomers – a series of questions about financial protection insurance. The findings were disturbing.

According to CIExpert, around two thirds of consumers have never bought a critical illness policy – or an income protection plan. Some five and seven per cent respectively have no idea whether they have or ever held such cover.

Misunderstanding about how cover works is rife. For example, nearly one in five consumers mistakenly believe the proceeds of any successful critical illness claim must be used to pay off a mortgage – while 19 per cent think any payout is subject to tax (it isn't).

Two-thirds of people are unaware that premiums are fixed for the term of the policy, which can be 30 or 35 years. Others are oblivious to the other benefits that cover offers – for example, free annual health checks and access to a second medical opinion. Protection insurance should be a key part of our financial armoury – we simply don't know what is lurking around the corner.

> How do you create a safety net for your family if illness stops you working?

That's excessive! Now Land Rover drivers hit with an extra excess

Jaguar Land Rover is rather tetchy with insurance companies over the way they are ratcheting up premiums for drivers of its deluxe cars – and in some cases even refusing to cover them.

The company's anger is understandable given the potential threat to sales. It also explains why the company has launched its own insurance cover to keep drivers sweet.

Nigel Barker, a director of workplace sourcing company Dennons UK, is experiencing the hardball approach which many insurers are adopting to owners of some JLR cars.

Anger: Jaguar Land Rover is rather tetchy with insurance companies over the way they are ratcheting up premiums for drivers of its deluxe cars

He is on his fourth Land Rover – a three-year-old Discovery Sport – in 12 years and recently instructed brokers to come up with competitive renewal quotes for it and a Mini Electric. Nigel – and his wife Christy – use both cars in their family business.

Price wise, Aviva came out on top, but there was a condition in its cover that Nigel had never seen before – an additional theft excess (on top of the £250 policy excess), applying specifically to any model of Land Rover or Range Rover with a market value of £25,000 or more.

It states: 'In the event of any loss of, or damage to, your vehicle (including its accessories and spare parts) caused by theft, an additional excess will apply to your claim, calculated as five per cent of the market value of your vehicle at the time of loss.' For Nigel, that would result in an additional excess of £1,750.

This extra excess has been included even though Nigel's car has benefited from a security upgrade, reducing its vulnerability to theft.

'I love Land Rover,' says Nigel, who lives in Todmorden, West Yorkshire. 'But this insurance tirade against the brand is testing my love affair to the limit.'

The biggest irony of all is that JLR's insurance company was unable to provide Nigel with a quote for his Land Rover.

Stamp Duty ripe for reform

Stampy Duty on house purchases is a tax ripe for reform – and in last Wednesday's Money Mail we called upon the Chancellor to take an axe to it in next month's Budget.

The tax is an impediment to a properly functioning housing market. It stops people from moving up the housing ladder as they progress through their working lives – and it deters homeowners from downsizing in later life. In contrast, a vibrant housing market is good for everyone – and an economic stimulant. Stamp Duty reform would help achieve this.

If you agree – or you or your children have been thwarted from moving by the prospect of a big Stamp Duty bill, please email me at jeff.prestridge@mailonsunday.co.uk. I'm all eyes and ears.