This is the hilarious moment a BBC presenter accidentally ruined her niece's surprise birthday party by revealing it on live television.

BBC Weather's Kawser Quamer was been left embarrassed after she started chatting about the party before realising that she had unintentionally spoiled the secret.

A clip of the mishap has been shared widely on social media as people saw the funny side of the family mistake.

Quamer had just finished the weather report for North West Tonight when presenter Annabel Tiffin called her over to the sofa for a casual chat at the end of the broadcast.

Tiffin asked: 'So, what have you got (coming) up at the weekend? Anything exciting?'

BBC Weather's Kawser Quamer was been left embarrassed after she started chatting about the party before realising that she had unintentionally spoiled the secret

Quamer is a weather presenter for North West Tonight, having previously worked at BBC Scotland

'My niece's surprise birthday party,' Quamer replied without realising that she had just revealed the surprise until her fellow presenter spelled it out.

'Oh that's lovely. But not a surprise if she's watching this,' Tiffin said.

Quamer saw the funny side of the blunder and burst out laughing, saying: 'Oh goodness me, I've spoiled the surprise.'

She tried to give viewers the shush sign in a desperate attempt to keep the secret alive, but quickly burst out laughing.

Seeing the funny side, she said: 'Oh goodness me, I've spoiled the surprise.'

It is not known if her neice had been tuning in at the time, but the mistake has attracted dozens of comments on social media.

Other BBC staff shared their reactions, with BBC North West presenter Steve Saul commenting 'Oh dear' on X while BBC News' creative director Chris Cook wrote: 'This is DELIGHTFUL – have a great weekend all xxxx.'

BBC South West journalist Alastair Monk said: 'This is just brilliant. In a time of so much stress, just enjoy.'

Viewers also reacted on X, with one person commenting: 'I've watched this multiple times now. It gets funnier every time.'

Another said: 'This is why I watch the regional news.'

‘I love human moments like this' said one social media user one.

But the blunder is not the first on-air mishap by a BBC presenter recently.

BBC News anchor Maryam Moshiri was also caught in an on-air mishap in December when she gave the middle finger before snatching her hand away, adopting a more appropriate demeanor as she begins to read out the headlines

In December BBC News anchor Maryam Moshiri went viral after she was caught flashing her middle finger directly at the camera, not realising it was already live.

The presenter then tried to swiftly switch into professional mode and began reading out the headlines, announcing: 'Live from London, this is BBC news.'

But the viral moment had been instantly created and the clip began to spread around the internet, causing Maryam to issue an apology and explain that she had been having a 'private joke' with her team before the programme began.

The BBC later released the whole clip of the moment proving she had counted down from 10 fingers to one in pretend countdown.