Taylor Swift has continued to wow her fans Down Under as she heads out on the Australian leg of her Eras tour.

Swifties took to social media on Friday to sing the praises of the fabulously wealthy 34-year-old pop star for her generosity.

Fans were responding to Foodbank Victoria's announcement that Taylor had made a sizeable donation to the group, which provides food relief for those in need.

Taking to Instagram, Foodbank Victoria posted a familiar image of the superstar on-stage with the caption 'OMG Thank you'.

'As if we couldn’t love you anymore than we already do,' the organisation captioned the post.

Pictured: Foodbank Victoria's announcement after receiving a sizeable donation from global megastar Taylor Swift.

Foodbank Victoria's message to Taylor on Friday

'Your generous donation to Foodbank Victoria will put a sparkle back in the eyes of so many Victorians doing it tough right now! THANK YOU.'

The not-for-profit group has not revealed the amount that Taylor provided. But fans seemed impressed with Taylor's very kind gesture.

'Wow, she is the sweetest,' one Swiftie commented.

The American singer has made it a tradition to donate to charities during her Eras World Tour Pictured: Taylor performing at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Friday

'Go you Taylor Swift. You are such a kind soul and very generous soul.'

Taylor even impressed one non-fan who messaged: 'The only Taylor Swift related post I've liked.'

Another pointed out that Taylor's generosity is typical since the star has been known to support charities as she continues her global concert tour.

Swifties responded to Foodbank Victoria's announcement and Taylor's very generous donation

'She actually does this in every city she plays in. Absolutely love this,' the fan messaged.

It comes after Swifties descended on the MCG in their thousands on Friday night for Taylor's hotly anticipated performance - her first in Australia since her 2018 Reputation tour.

While Swiftie mania has swept Australia in the lead-up to the concert, the night also marked Taylor's biggest show ever as 96,000 fans flocked to the iconic venue.