Police will resume the search for a missing toddler this morning in a major incident which saw a man taken to hospital and a helicopter and drone scouring the area.

The two-year-old boy was out with his family when he fell into the River Soar in Braunstone, Leicestershire, last night.

Leicestershire Police said all emergency services were in attendance and searching for the child after the force received reports he fell into the water at around 5pm.

The force said that 'despite the best efforts of those at the scene', the toddler has not been found. It confirmed that a man has been taken to hospital as a precaution.

A police helicopter was sighted searching the river at about 5.40pm, later replaced with a drone.

The helicopter then returned at 6.40pm after refuelling and was lighting up the search area.

The road between Braunstone Lane East and Middleton Street is currently closed.

Police have launched a major search operation after a child fell into a river, with police and emergency services on the scene. Pictured last night

Emergency services are on the scene and a police helicopter was sighted searching the river at about 5.40pm, later replaced with a drone

The helicopter then returned at 6.40pm after refuelling and is now lighting up the search area

Police said the search won't continue throughout the night, but would resume in the morning.

A statement released by the police last night said: 'Earlier this evening (Sunday 18 February) officers were called to the River Soar in Leicester after reports of a child falling into the water.

'The child, a two-year-old boy, was with family when he fell into the river, sadly despite the best efforts of those at the scene at the time the child was not located.

'Emergency services attended the scene just after 5pm and a search and rescue operation began in Aylestone Meadows, close to Marsden Lane.

'A man was taken to hospital as a precautionary measure.

'The operation is ongoing and will continue with additional specialist teams in the morning.

Police said the search won't continue throughout the night, but would resume in the morning

The force said that 'despite the best efforts of those at the scene', the toddler has not been found. It confirmed that a man has been taken to hospital as a precaution

'The child’s family are being supported by specialist officers and our thoughts are with them at this extremely difficult time.

'We have had a number of offers of support to assist with the search and would kindly ask that people do not attend the scene due to rising water levels and safety risks.

'If anyone has any information or comes across anything that may assist officers, they are asked to contact us immediately.

'Specialist teams are on standby to respond to any information received.'

A spokesperson for the fire and rescue service told the BBC: 'This is a police-led incident. We can confirm we were alerted at 17:05 and still have water rescue teams at the scene.'

Local man Adam, who did not want to give his surname, was with his daughter on their bikes nearby.

He told the BBC: 'We usually ride along the river by Aylestone Meadows but the police told us not to go tonight when we went down there.

'The parents must be absolutely beside themselves.'