Emily Atack looked radiant as she hit the red carpet at the 2024 BAFTAs on Sunday.

The pregnant presenter, 34, put her baby bump on display in a flowing cream gown that featured keyhole cut out detail across her chest.

Her glamorous garment featured flared sleeves and trailed to the floor in a dramatic caped detail.

Emily completed the look by styling her glossy golden locks in a chic chignon bun.

David Tennant will host this year's ceremony live from Royal Festival Hall at London's Southbank Centre, with an array of guest presenters on hand to deliver awards throughout the night.

Pregnant Emily Atack cradles her baby bump in a flowing cream gown with keyhole cut out as she hit the red carpet on Sunday's BAFTAs ceremony

Actress and singer Hannah Waddingham will treat guests to an exclusive live music performance, while Sophie Ellis-Bextor will perform her iconic hit Murder on the Dancefloor after it enjoyed a new lease of life in Emerald Fennell's BAFTA nominated Saltburn.

Elsewhere the Guyanese-born, London-based film curator June Givanni will receive an Outstanding British Contribution to Cinema Award.

Actress Samantha Morton's lengthy career will also be rewarded with a BAFTA Fellowship, the arts charity’s highest accolade and handed out in recognition of outstanding and exceptional contribution to film, games or television.

Tennant, who is hosting the star-studded ceremony for the first time, recently admitted he was bewildered by the prospect of compering to so many people.

He told Variety: 'I don’t know what to expect, if I’m honest with you. The whole thing just feels like one of those experiences you say “yes” to because it would be churlish not to. But what an amazing thing to be asked to do. What a privilege.'

The Scottish actor also insisted he will adopt a softer approach to the abrasive style used to great effect by Ricky Gervais at the Golden Globes.

'I think the BAFTA mood is supportive and friendly,' he added. 'Ricky Gervais is brilliant at what he does, but that wouldn’t be my style.

'I don’t think I’ve quite got that sort of approach, so I think you just have to kind of be who you are, really. But we’ve got some good material that won’t leave anyone feeling got at.'

The pregnant presenter, 34, put her baby bump on display in a flowing cream gown that featured keyhole cut out detail across her chest

Tennant revealed he was in complete shock when he received an email asking if he wanted to host the annual awards show.

Speaking to the Radio Times, he said: 'Right now, a month out, it feels like a bit of a thrill and a lark.

'An extraordinary opportunity to do something very unusual and exciting. People keep asking me how nervous I am, how I’m preparing for it and so on, and that’s beginning to make me nervous.

'Who knows why they’ve asked me! I just thought I’d say yes before they realised they’ve sent the email to the wrong person.'

BAFTA CEO Jane Millichip confirmed the academy was 'over the moon' that Tennant would be hosting the ceremony.

She said: 'He is deservedly beloved by British and international audiences, alike.

'His warmth, charm and mischievous wit will make it a must-watch show next month for our guests at the Royal Festival Hall and the millions of people watching at home.'

Guest presenters on the night will include Bryce Dallas Howard, Callum Turner, Cate Blanchett, Chiwetel Ejiofor, Daisy Edgar Jones, David Beckham, Deepika Padukone, Dua Lipa, Emma Corrin, Gillian Anderson, Hugh Grant, Idris Elba, Jack O’Connell, Lily Collins, Rebecca Ferguson and Taylor Russell.

Emma Baehr, Executive Director of Awards & Content said: 'It is a privilege to welcome so many nominees to the EE BAFTA Film Awards this Sunday, representing some of the best on-screen and behind-the-screen creative talent working in film today who have provided audiences worldwide with an incredible year of film.

'It is a joy to bring these 38 remarkable films and the teams that made them to public attention.

'With host David Tennant bringing his charm and charisma to the ceremony, and performances from Sophie Ellis-Bextor and Hannah Waddingham, it promises to be an entertaining show for all our nominees and guests at the Royal Festival Hall and the millions of people watching at home around the world.'

In 2023, acting veteran Richard E. Grant graced the stage as the BAFTAs host, and during his opening monologue referenced the notorious 2022 Academy Awards moment when movie star Will Smith slapped presenter Chris Rock across the face.

He told the star-studded crowd: 'Nobody on my watch gets slapped tonight – except on the back.'

In 2022, Pitch Perfect and Bridesmaids actress Rebel Wilson made risqué jokes about the royal family, Russian president Vladimir Putin, the gender pay gap, flop film Cats - in which she starred - and her recent weight loss.

The British Academy of Film and Television Arts is a world-leading independent arts charity that draws attention to the best of film, games and television and supports the development of creative talent in the United Kingdom and the wide world.

The organisation also celebrates excellence and nurtures fresh talent through year-round workshops, scholarships, masterclasses, mentoring schemes and lectures.

The nominees for the BAFTA EE Rising Star Award were announced on January 10, with the official longlist of nominations unveiled on January 18.

This year's ceremony is two hours long and will be broadcast from 7:00pm until 9:00pm on BBC One and will available to stream on BBC iPlayer.