Everton’s buyers 777 Partners are implementing a major staff cost-cutting programme with the aim of reducing headcount across the business by around five per cent.

Mail Sport has learned there have been redundancies in both 777’s London and Miami offices recently, while the American investment company’s chief financial officer Damian Alfalla has resigned.

777 have been frustrated by the length of time it is taking the Premier League to conduct due diligence on their offer to buy Everton having agreed a sale with current owner Farhad Moshiri last September.

The Premier League have been scrutinising the Everton deal for almost five months in stark contrast to other recent takeovers.

The Todd Boehly/Clearlake Capital purchase of Chelsea two years ago was approved in under four weeks, although given Roman Abramovich was forced to sell by the government following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine the circumstances were exceptional, while Sir Jim Ratcliffe’s £1.25billion investment in Manchester United was approved in six weeks.

Everton’s potential buyers 777 Partners are implementing a major staff cost-cutting programme (Pictured: 777 co-founder Josh Wander (L) shaking hands with Farhad Moshiri (R))

Co-founder Josh Wander and 777 are aiming to reduce the headcount across the business by around five per cent

777 were asked by the Premier League to provide further details of their funding and assurances (Pictured: Premier League CEO Richard Masters)

Your browser does not support iframes.

777 were asked by the Premier League to provide further details of their funding and assurances they can bankroll the club for at least the next few years this week, in another indication that approval for the takeover is not guaranteed.

The delays are proving expensive for 777 as they have been effectively funding Everton since September, and have committed around £190m in loans to meet the club’s operating costs and the construction of their new stadium at Bramley Moore Dock.

777 have been effectively funding Everton since September and have committed around £190m in loans to meet the club's operating costs and construction of their new stadium

The Premier League have been scrutinising Everton and 777's deal for almost five months, in stark contrast to other recent takeovers

777’s funding for Everton is facing fresh scrutiny after an insurance company they have borrowed from – Haymarket – have been investigated for potential breaches of US governance regulations.

777 declined to comment about their cost-cutting, but a source close to the company said that a fluid headcount is standard practice in the financial services industry.