It's been described by the UN as the 'most destructive migratory pest in the world'.

And now a new study has warned that giant 'megaswarms' of locusts could be triggered - thanks to climate change.

Experts from the National University of Singapore say that extreme wind and rain may lead to bigger and worse desert locust outbreaks, with human-caused climate change likely to intensify the weather patterns and cause higher outbreak risks.

Worryingly, the researchers warn that these megaswarms could have devastating effects on the global food chain.

'Failure to address these risks could further strain food production systems and escalate the severity of global food insecurity,' said Xiaogang He, author of the study.

It's been described by the UN as the 'most destructive migratory pest in the world'. And now a new study has warned that giant 'megaswarms' of locusts could be triggered - thanks to climate change

READ MORE: 'Apocalyptic' locust swarms fill skies of Mexico leaving people fearing Armageddon is near

Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sciencetech/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

The desert locust is a migratory insect that travels in swarms of millions over long distances and damages crops, causing famine and food insecurity.

A square kilometre swarm comprises 80 million locusts that can in one day consume food crops enough to feed 35,000 people.

The study, published in Science Advances, said these outbreaks will be 'increasingly hard to prevent and control' in a warming climate.

To assess the risk of locust outbreaks in Africa and the Middle East and the connection to climate change, scientists analyzed incidents of desert locust outbreaks from 1985 to 2020 using the Food and Agriculture Organization's Locust Hub data tool.

They created and used a data-driven framework to examine the insects' patterns to find out what may cause outbreaks to happen across long distances.

The desert locust is a migratory insect that travels in swarms of millions over long distances and damages crops, causing famine and food insecurity

They found that 10 countries, including Kenya, Morocco, Niger, Yemen, and Pakistan, experienced the majority of locust outbreaks among 48 affected nations.

The worst outbreak of desert locusts in 25 years struck East Africa in 2019 and 2020, when the insects ravaged hundreds of thousands of acres of farmland and damaged crops, trees and other vegetation, impacting food security and livelihoods.

The researchers also found a strong link between the magnitude of desert locust outbreaks and weather and land conditions like air temperature, precipitation, soil moisture, and wind.

Desert locusts are more likely to infest arid areas that receive sudden extreme rainfall, and the number of the insects in an outbreak is strongly impacted by weather conditions.

El Nino, a recurring and natural climate phenomenon that affects weather worldwide, was also strongly tied to bigger and worse desert locust outbreaks.

University of Delaware entomology professor Douglas Tallamy, who wasn't part of the research, said erratic weather and rainfall trigger spurts in vegetation and therefore fuels enormous population growth in locusts.

'As such variability increases, it is logical to predict that locust outbreaks will increase as well,' he said.

The study found that especially vulnerable locations like Morocco and Kenya remain high-risk but locust habitats had expanded since 1985 and projects that they will continue growing by at least five per cent by the end of the 21st century, predictably to west India and west central Asia.

It gives the example of the Rub' al Khali, or Empty Quarter, a desert in the southern Arabian Peninsula, as a place that was historically uncommon for desert locust outbreaks but then became a hotspot.

The desert experienced locust outbreaks in 2019 after uncontrolled breeding following cyclones, which filled the desert with freshwater lakes.

Major locust outbreaks can have huge financial impacts. It cost more than $450 million to respond to a locust outbreak that happened in West Africa from 2003 to 2005, according to the World Bank.

The outbreak had caused an estimated $2.5 billion in crop damage, it said.