Kourtney Kardashian showed off her famous figure with a set of sizzling selfies on Friday.

The 44-year-old reality star - who jetted down to Australia to catch husband Travis Barker's Blink-182 concerts - took to Instagram to share pics rocking a daring red gown while admiring Travis' Valentine's Day gift of red roses.

Looking like she stepped off the runway, the beauty stunned in the skintight dress featuring long sleeves and fur-trimmed cuffs.

She posed like a pro, hands delicately placed under her chin, while leaning gracefully next to the gigantic vase that held the gorgeous flowers.

The bloom is clearly one of Kourtney's favorite, as Travis used hundreds of them in a grand display when he proposed to the POOSH founder in 2022.

Kourtney Kardashian showed off her famous figure with a set of sizzling selfies on Friday

The 44-year-old reality star took to her Instagram to share pics of herself rocking a daring red gown while admiring Travis' Valentine's Day gift of red roses

The post comes a day after Kourtney told her husband she was 'obsessed' with him after he honored her with a Valentine's Day tribute on Instagram.

She took to her Stories to re-post one of the snaps from the 48-year-old rocker's post, which saw her jumping into his arms in a tiny black and white bikini.

'Obsessed with you,' Kourtney wrote over the image, adding a red heart emoji.

In his original post, Travis also shared a sizzling image of Kourtney in skimpy red hot lingerie that featured a midriff cut-out and feather trim.

'Happy Valentine's Day my beautiful wife,' he wrote in the caption, to which she replied, 'Happy Valentine’s Day husband of my dreams.'

The mother-of-four has been enjoying quality time with her kids and Travis, as she joined the blink-182 drummer on the Australian leg of the band's tour.

On Wednesday the pair were spotted at the Luna amusement park in Sydney with Kourtney's daughter Penelope, 11, and son Reign, nine, whom she shares with ex Scott Disick, 40.

The park was closed to the public however opened its gates for Kourtney, Travis and other members of blink 182.

She posed like a pro, hands delicately placed under her chin, while leaning gracefully next to the gigantic vase that held the gorgeous flowers.

Looking like she stepped off the runway, the beauty stunned in the skintight dress featuring long sleeves and fur-trimmed cuffs

Kourtney told her husband she was 'obsessed' with him after he honoured her with a raunchy Valentine's Day tribute on Instagram

At one point, Travis and Kourtney were pictured on a carousel ride together.

The pair also carried large stuffed animals they appeared to have won for their kids at the theme park.

Kourtney also shares son Mason, 14, with Scott, though he didn't appear to be present.

Kourtney and Travis are also parents to son Rocky Thirteen, who is three months.

Meanwhile Travis shares daughter Alabama, 18, and Landon, 20, as well as stepdaughter Atiana, 24, with ex Shana Moakler, 48.

Travis Barker sent his wife Kourtney Kardashian a hundred red roses for Valentine's Day at their Sydney mansion on Wednesday

Travis shares several photos on Instagram to pay tribute to his wife

Another photo saw Travis preparing their bedroom for Valentine's Day, as he scattered red rose petals on the bed that spelled out their first name initials in the middle of a large heart shape

Travis' blink-182 bandmate Mark Hoppus also posted a snap from the day, showing the pair enjoying a boat ride along the bay.

The day prior, Kourtney shared photos from her trip to the luxurious Amangiri resort in Canyon Point, Utah, and clarified that it was the spot she and Travis had been vacationing at when they set about expanding their family.

She captioned the post 'One year ago today.' The drummer made it even more explicit with his comment on the post: 'We made baby Rocky.'

Kourtney previously said that Rocky, who was born in November of last year, had been conceived on Valentine's Day of 2023.