Hundreds of Taylor Swift's female fans were forced to use the male toilets at the MCG over the weekend during the pop star's Melbourne leg of her Eras tour.

The global megastar performed to approximately 300,000 adoring Aussie fans over her three sold out concerts at the stadium.

On Sunday, a Swiftie shared a video to TikTok capturing the bizarre moment.

The footage began by panning around the nearly empty men's bathroom and urinal before showing the women lining up to use the cubicles.

There was a long line of fed-up looking females waiting for a cubicle to become free, before cutting to show the line extending well past the toilet entrance.

Hundreds of Taylor Swift's female fans were forced to use the male toilets at the MCG during the pop star's Melbourne leg of her Eras tour over the weekend

'At Taylor Swift, the boys have to share their toilets with the girls,' the fan wrote next to the footage.

Another concertgoer posted a clip showing a line of 300 people waiting to use every female toilet at the stadium at 5pm - almost two hours before the concert even began.

Despite the long lines in the bathroom, Taylor's concert went off without a hitch and the Lover star was incredibly thankful.

She shared a sweet message to Aussie fans after performing the three sold out gigs.

The superstar, 34, posted several photos from her Australian tour to Instagram on Monday and thanked fans for the memories.

On Sunday, a Swiftie shared a video to TikTok capturing the bizarre moment . The footage began by panning around the nearly empty men's bathroom and urinal before showing the women lining up to use the cubicles

'Melbourne, what do I even say to you after over 288,000 of you came and danced with us in the last 3 nights ??! That was unforgettable,' she wrote.

'You were on another LEVEL. Thank you for the memories. I'll revisit the ones from this weekend often.'

Swift also sent local fans wild by declaring, 'Melbourne, you're the love of my life' during her show on Sunday night.

She told the crowd: 'Some stadium girl math for you … 96,000 people the first night, 96,000 people the second night. 96,000 people tonight.'

'Those are all the biggest shows I've ever played on a tour and you did it three times,' she added.

'The math is that it's 288,000 people in three nights, Melbourne. You are the love of my life.'

Swift will hit Sydney this weekend, with the pop star set to perform at four shows from Friday, February 23 to Monday February 26.