Higher mortgage rates are taking a heavy toll on first-time buyers, with increasing numbers of aspiring homeowners feeling priced out of the property market.

Over the next five years, 426,000 fewer first-time buyers will make it on to the housing ladder, according to analysis by Leeds Building Society, when placed against the 40-year average of 340,000 first time buyer purchases a year.

Many will instead remain in an under-supplied lettings market, paying ever-higher monthly rents.

The cause, according to Leeds BS, is a combination of historically high house prices that require bigger and bigger deposits and higher mortgage rates.

We look at how severe the situation is, and what first-time buyers need to think about when deciding whether they can afford to buy.

Shut out: Over the next five years, 426,000 fewer first-time buyers will make it on to the housing ladder, according to analysis by Leeds Building Society

While higher mortgage rates have hit many home movers and buy-to-let investors, first-time buyers may be feeling the extra costs more acutely.

There were a total of 238,540 new first time buyer mortgages agreed between January and October last year, according to UK Finance.

That's down from 305,210 first-time buyer mortgages during that same 10-month period in 2022 and down from 341,730 in the same 10-month period in 2021.

> How much could a new mortgage cost you? Use our mortgage finder tool

First-timers still buying show caution

Additional data suggests that those first-time buyers who have decided to push ahead and buy despite higher mortgage rates are being cautious not to overstretch themselves financially.

Last year, the average first-time buyer borrowed at an average of 3.36 times their annual incomes, according to UK Finance.

In 2022, the typical first-time buyer was borrowing at 3.62 times their income.

They are also lengthening the term of the mortgage. This is the number of years they agree to repay their mortgage for.

By choosing a longer term, buyers can reduce the amount of their monthly payments - but as interest continues to accrue for longer, they will pay more overall.

The average term of first time buyers' mortgages has steadily been increasing over time. In 2005, the average term was 25 years. Today, it is 31 years.

The average deposit put down by first-time buyers remains around the 25 per cent mark, according to UK Finance.

In the next five years, the number of aspiring homeowners priced out of the market could be enough to fill a city bigger than Coventry

Richard Fearon, chief executive of Leeds Building Society, said: 'More than a decade of low interest rates have papered over the cracks in the housing market.

'It has masked a growing gap between people with the ability, or family help, to build ever-higher deposits and stretch their repayments, and those who cannot.

'If left unaddressed the gap will become a chasm - in the next five years, the number of aspiring homeowners priced out of the market could be enough to fill a city bigger than Coventry.'

This is what first-time buyers need to consider in today's high-rate environment.

What kind of home can you afford?

What someone is able to borrow is determined by their income, deposit, age, and monthly outgoings, including any debts they may have.

An easy way to establish the maximum they can borrow is by speaking with a mortgage broker. They will likely request bank statements, payslips or tax returns before they can fully advise.

This is Money's mortgage broker partner, L&C, offers fee-free advice.

At present lenders are restricted by mortgage affordability guidelines designed to prevent people from financially overstretching themselves.

These guidelines were supposedly relaxed in 2022 when the Bank of England dropped its requirement for lenders to carry out affordability stress testing.

This had previously meant borrowers had to prove they could still afford their mortgage repayments if their mortgage rate was to increase to 3 per cent above their lender's standard variable rate.

Affordability limited: At present lenders are restricted by mortgage affordability guidelines designed to prevent people from financially overstretching themselves

But even though it is no longer required, many lenders are still carrying out stress tests against hypothetical interest rate rises of different sizes.

Most mortgage lenders continue to 'stress test' the borrower, checking that they could still afford their repayments once their initial fixed rate deal ends in two to five years.

For example, on a two-year fix charging 5.5 per cent, a lender might stress test the borrowers' ability to pay 8.5 per cent, or on a five-year fixed rate it might stress test at 7.5 per cent.

After the initial fixed period, if the borrower does nothing and lapses onto the lender's higher standard variable rate (SVR), they should in theory be able to afford the higher monthly costs.

The other element of the mortgage affordability guidelines that has been kept on is the loan-to-income ratio.

This is a cap on the amount banks can lend based on the borrower's annual income. They are able to offer some loans above this level, but there are tight restrictions on how many.

As a general rule of thumb, most first-time buyers will find themselves limited to a maximum of 4.5 times their income.

How much can you afford? Find out how much you can afford to borrow for a monthly payment amount with This is Money's mortgage affordability calculator. <!- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/money/moneymortgageshome/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

If a lender does agree to a higher multiple, it will typically be for those with a substantial income and a large deposit.

For example, Santander only lends up to 4.45 times annual income if the combined income of all borrowers is less than £45,000.

Those who earn a combined income of between £45,000 and £99,000 with a deposit of at least 25 per cent can get up to 5 times annual income.

Those who earn £100,000 or more and have at least a 25 per cent deposit can get up to 5.5 times their annual income.

Some lenders also apply a lower stress rate for fixed rates of five years or longer, enabling borrowers to borrow more.

There are also certain lenders that provide higher multiples for certain professions. For example, Kensington's 'hero mortgage' is suitable for those employed in essential public sector roles such as police officers, firefighters, NHS clinicians, the armed forces and teachers and lecturers.

Kensington also offers higher multiples to customers who tie into their lifetime fixed deals, where the interest rate is fixed for the whole term of the mortgage - though this option needs to be carefully considered and will not be for everyone.

What mortgage rate can you get?

The mortgage interest you will pay depends on where banks are setting their rates at the moment, as well as how big your deposit is in relation to the property value and how good your credit rating is.

The best advice is to use a mortgage broker in order to shop around for the best rate. They will also help first-time buyers decide what type of mortgage to take, and how long they should fix for.

Before interest rates began to rise last year, two-year fixed rate mortgages tended to be cheaper than five-year fixes.

This is no longer the case, though two-year fixes are proving increasingly popular among borrowers, because they think interest rates will fall over the next two years and they will then be able to switch on to a cheaper deal more quickly.

The average five-year fixed mortgage is currently 5.29 per cent, according to Moneyfacts, compared to the average two-year fix of 5.69 per cent.

Past the peak: Mortgage rates have been falling back in recent months with inflation falling back and markets predicting the Bank of England will begin cutting base rate later this year

This means that on average, someone fixing for five years and repaying a £200,000 mortgage over a 30 year term will pay £1,112 a month today compared to £1,162 if they took a two-year fix. That's an extra £50 each month, or £600 over the course of a year.

The size of their deposit will also have a profound impact on the rate they can get.

The average rate for someone buying with a 40 per cent deposit or more on a five-year fixed deal is currently 5.06 per cent, according to Moneyfacts.

What is loan-to-value? Loan-to-value is a measure of how much you are borrowing on a mortgage compared to a property's value. It is dependent on the size of deposit you can put down or the equity in your home. Someone putting down a £10,000 deposit on a £100,000 home would need a £90,000 mortgage. This is 90 per cent of the property's value, so they would be borrowing at 90 per cent loan-to-value. Similarly a homeowner whose property is worth £100,000 and has an outstanding mortgage of £90,000 could remortgage at 90 per cent loan-to-value. <!- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/money/moneymortgageshome/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_2 - ->

That compares to an average of 5.65 per cent for those buying with a 10 per cent deposit.

Depending on the size of their mortgage, that could save someone hundreds of pounds each month.

The good news is that there are deals around which are much more competitive than these average rates.

First time buyers with the biggest deposits of 40 per cent or more can secure rates below 4 per cent if they fix for five or 10 years.

Even those with a 5 or 10 per cent deposit can comfortably beat the average going rate with the cheapest deals on the market.

In fact, even the lowest two-year fixed rate is currently below 5 per cent.

David Hollingworth, associate director at L&C Mortgages says: 'I think that first-time buyer lending has held up relatively well in a tighter market although obviously the purchase market has reduced overall.

'Affordability will remain a key concern and there is still a need to get a bigger deposit when prices have not fallen back as much as many may have anticipated.

'At the same time interest rates have escalated and one of the key supports for first time buyers affordability over the last 10 or more years will have been low rates.

'Higher rates put additional pressure on monthly costs for first time buyers which may delay their ability to buy.

Expert: David Hollingworth, associate director at L&C Mortgages says higher rates put additional pressure on monthly costs for first time buyers which may delay their ability to buy

Hollingworth adds: 'Although rates are higher you can see that some of the steps in loan to value bands are not as significant in rate terms as you would previously have faced.

'Strong competition in the mortgage market will have helped to squeeze the margin on higher loan to value deals.'

Best mortgage rates for first-time buyers

Bigger deposit mortgages

Five-year fixed rate mortgage

The Co-operative Bank has a five-year fixed rate at 3.89 per cent with a £999 fee at 60 per cent loan to value.

Two-year fixed rate mortgage

Barclays has a two-year fixed product at 4.17 per cent with a £899 fee at 60 per cent loan to value.

Mid-range deposit mortgages

Five-year fixed rate mortgage

Co-op has a five-year fixed rate at 3.92 per cent with a £999 fee at 75 per cent loan to value.

Two-year fixed rate mortgage

Barclays has a 4.2 per cent fixed rate deal with a £899 fee at 75 per cent loan-to-value.

10% deposit mortgages

Five-year fixed rate mortgage

The Co-operative Bank has a five-year fixed rate at 4.02 per cent with a £999 fee at 90 per cent loan to value.

Two-year fixed rate mortgage

The Co-operative Bank has a two-year fixed rate at 4.8 per cent with a £999 fee at 90 per cent loan to value.

5% deposit mortgages

Five-year fixed rate mortgage

The Co-operative Bank has a five-year fixed rate at 4.48 per cent with a £999 fee at 95 per cent loan to value.

Two-year fixed rate mortgage

The Co-operative Bank has a two-year fixed rate at 4.99 per cent with a £999 fee at 95 per cent loan to value.

> Find the best rate for your circumstances using This is Money's mortgage tool

What mortgage term should you choose?

By lengthening the term of a mortgage, a borrower will spread their repayments over a longer period of time and therefore lowers the monthly costs.

However, whilst taking out a longer mortgage term will reduce the monthly costs, it will ultimately mean paying interest for a longer period of time and therefore paying more in the long run.

Chris Sykes, associate director of broker, Private Finance, says for those that can, putting down a bigger deposit should unlock a slightly cheaper rate

For example, someone with a £200,000 mortgage paying 5.5 per cent interest over 20 years would face monthly repayments of £1,376, paying a total of £330,166 over the lifespan of the mortgage.

Conversely, someone with a £200,000 mortgage paying the same interest rate over a 40-year term would face monthly repayments of £1,031. However, they would pay £495,089 over the lifespan of the mortgage: £164,923 more than on a 20 year term.

While their interest rate would likely change during this time if they remortgaged or fell on to their lender's standard variable rate, the principle remains the same.

Chris Sykes, associate director at mortgage broker, Private Finance says: 'It is hard for first-time buyers, especially with how expensive rent is.

'Although the larger the deposit they put forward will result in better rates, this isn’t very helpful as many are now struggling to save at all with their rental payments.

'Ninety per cent and 95 per cent mortgages come at a premium and the lower the loan to value (banded by 5 per cent) the better the rate.

'The only other way that you can lower the rate as a first time buyer is extending the mortgage term.

'Alternatively, once the mortgage is in place, they can divert any spare cash they have into making overpayments which will help lower their payments.

'They can typically make overpayments of up to 10 per cent of the mortgage value each year.'

What are the other costs of getting a mortgage?

Securing a mortgage can come with a number of added costs, which first-time buyers need to budget for.

Arrangement fee

Firstly, some mortgage deals include an arrangement fee. These are fees lenders charge borrowers for setting up their mortgage, and they range from nothing at all to £2,500. Sometimes they can also be a percentage of the total mortgage amount.

But as well as covering the lenders' costs, they essentially act as a 'top-up' profit on mortgages with lower rates.

Sometimes, the same lender will offer a number of products, for example, one with a fee and one without. The one with a fee will have a lower interest rate.

But it is important to calculate your mortgage costs with this up-front payment included, as the bigger fee could end up costing more overall.

Borrowers are currently being warned to watch out for mortgages which offer a cheap headline rate, but incur a hefty fee.

It's possible to add the fee to the mortgage or pay it off immediately, but mortgage brokers typically advise against paying the fee upfront, just in case the mortgage doesn't end up going ahead.

In rare circumstances there may also be a non-refundable booking fee at the point of application - typically ranging between £100 and £250.

Broker fees

If using a mortgage broker, there might be a fee to pay for their services. However, there are now a large number of free online mortgage brokers to choose from as well.

Work out the true cost: Some mortgage deals include an arrangement fee that may make them more expensive than a deal with no fee and a higher rate

Mortgage brokers are paid commission by the lender - this is typically about 0.35 per cent of the total mortgage value.

Those using a fee-charging mortgage broker can typically expect to pay between £500 and £1,000, though this may depend on the size of their mortgage.

In some cases brokers charge a percentage of the mortgage amount. That can mount up, especially if someone has a large mortgage. For example, 1 per cent on a £500,000 mortgage would equate to a £5,000 fee.

Valuation fee

There could also be a valuation fee to take into account. The mortgage valuation is a check carried out by the bank to assess whether the home being purchased fits within its lending criteria, and that the amount being paid represents market value.

A mortgage valuation fee can vary depending on the value of the property. It will typically cost between £100 and £400, but in many cases it will be offered for free as part of the mortgage deal.

If a fee is included, this will need to be paid upfront.