The New York Rangers and Islanders paid tribute to local first responders on Sunday ahead of their Stadium Series clash at MetLife Stadium as they arrived to the stadium in firetrucks and cop cars.

Each player from the Rangers wore a special FDNY or NYPD jersey and arrived with a police officer or firefighter.

They could also be seen arriving to the game in a cop car and on the top of a firetruck, with winger Artemi Panarin smiling and raising his fist in one photo.

The Rangers also posted a video to X capturing the team's arrival, and captioned it, 'An honor to share this moment with you, @NYPDnews and @FDNY.'

Meanwhile, Islanders head coach Patrick Roy was also seen exiting a firetruck as he made his way towards MetLife.

Artemi Panarin #10, Adam Edstrom #84 and Braden Schneider #4 of the New York Rangers arrive on an NYFD firetruck for the 2024 Stadium Series game

Rangers players wore special FDNY jerseys as they rode towards MetLife Stadium

Panarin #10 of the New York Rangers arrives prior to the game against the New York Islanders

Zac Jones and K'Andre Miller of the Rangers pose with members of the FDNY and NYPD

Islanders coach Patrick Roy exits a firetruck on his way into MetLife Stadium on Sunday

The stadium was packed to the brim with fans of the rival teams, with the Islanders jumping out to a 3-1 lead after the first period.

It was announced during the game that the Islanders will host the 2026 NHL All-Star Game at UBS Arena.

Sunday's Stadium Series matchup between the Isles and Rangers came a day after the Devils and Flyers also played at MetLife.

On Saturday, Flyers stars showed up to the game dressed up as fictional boxer Rocky Balboa, who hailed from Philadelphia in the famed movie series.

Jacob Trouba of the New York Rangers enters the arena prior to the game against the Islanders

Fans packed out MetLife Stadium in New Jersey for the game between the instate rivals

The Islanders got off to a strong start, jumping out to a 3-1 lead by the end of the first period

The team wore matching grey sweatsuits and black hats, with white towels around their necks and white tape wrapped around their hands - much like how Balboa looked when training for his fights in the films.

Devils players, on the other hand, showed up to work in colorful tracksuits, white t-shirts, and with jewelry around their necks, resembling characters from The Sopranos. The iconic series revolves around Tony Soprano - a New Jersey-based mobster.

Devils players Timo Meier and Jesper Bratt even posed for pictures sipping from espresso cups as if they were drinking outside of the iconic Satriale's Pork Store.

The Devils won the game 6-3.