Jessica Rowe was one very proud mother on Tuesday when she supervised her daughter Allegra's photoshoot in Sydney.

The former Studio 10 host, 53, appeared alongside her 17-year-old daughter who signed with a top modelling agency last year.

With the photoshoot taking place at a beachside location, Jessica looked vibrant in a bright, rainbow floral pantsuit and matching slouched wide-brimmed hat.

She was seen carrying a pale pink keep cup with a straw and wore bright pink and orange sneakers.

Meanwhile, her daughter Allegra posed for photos while wearing a navy long-sleeved top and blue maxi skirt.

Jessica Rowe was one very proud mother on Tuesday when she supervised her daughter Allegra's photoshoot in Sydney

Her platinum blonde hair was tied back in a low ponytail and she appeared to be holding a iceblock in one hand.

Jessica was also seen cooling down with an icy treat with her eldest child.

Allegra is following in her famous parents' footsteps after signing with a top modelling agency.

She inked a management deal with Priscilla's Models just weeks after her 16th birthday, and has already posed for her first headshots.

The former Studio 10 host, 53, appeared alongside her 17-year-old daughter who signed with a top modelling agency last year.

Allegra is following in her famous parents' footsteps after signing with a top modelling agency

Months later, Allegra made her catwalk debut against the iconic backdrop of the Sydney Opera House, turning heads as she walked the AJE Athletica runway 23 collection with her teary mum supporting her in the star-studded crowd.

Missing a day of school for the occasion, Allegra modelled beige cargo-style pants, a cropped T-shirt and a black bucket hat.

Jessica once worked as a fashion model in her teens.

It seems Allegra has dreamt of becoming a star for some time, as she previously advertised her skills as an actress on casting website Backstage.

It seems Allegra (left) has dreamt of becoming a star for some time. Pictured with mum Jessica

Jessica is pictured in her youth modelling for retailer David Jones

The podcast host and her husband, Channel Nine news anchor Peter Overton, have been married since 2004 and share daughter Allegra and 14-year-old Giselle together.

The couple first met when Jessica was doing work experience at Channel Nine at age 19, but didn't start dating until years later when they met at the Logies.

Jessica is best known for her co-hosting role on Studio 10, which she stepped down from in March 2018 to spend more time with her family.

Taking to Twitter at the time, a supportive Peter applauded his wife's 'courageous' decision to leave the program.

'To make a decision to leave a job you love takes courage,' he said.

'Jess and I have had some long talks about this and the bottom line is our little girls need their mum.'

Jessica and Peter, who have been married since 2004, also share 13-year-old daughter Giselle. (Pictured left to right: Peter, Giselle, Allegra, Jessica)