FKA twigs enjoyed a sweet moment with boyfriend Jordan Hemingway as they left the Netflix BAFTAs afterparty at Chiltern Firehouse on Sunday night.

The British hitmaker, 36, looked loved-up with Jordan, 32, as he dutifully helped her navigate the stairs in her towering platform heels.

Twigs, whose real name is Tahliah Debrett Barnett, was no doubt all partied out as she also attended the British Vogue and Tiffany & Co afterparty at Annabel's earlier.

The singer and her boyfriend, who have now been dating for a year, appeared in good spirits after enjoying the swanky bash at the celebrities' favourite hotspot.

They couldn't keep their hands off each other as they made their way to the car looking cosy.

FKA twigs enjoyed a sweet moment with boyfriend Jordan Hemingway as they left the Netflix BAFTAs afterparty at Chiltern Firehouse on Sunday night

The British hitmaker, 36, looked loved-up with Jordan, 32, as he dutifully helped her along in her towering platform heels

The songstress caught the eye in a typically bold ensemble, which left very little to the imagination.

She ensured all eyes would be on her as she sizzled in a cut-out sheer top which displayed both her nude bra and toned physique.

The dancer added to the racy look with thigh-high split skirt and teased a glimpse of black underwear while slipping her feet into towering platform boots.

The stunner also wore a sheepskin aviator jacket and rocked a silver bag, matching her edgy jewellery set which included chunky chokers and hoop earrings.

Meanwhile, London-based photographer Jordan looked suave in an all-black look, wearing his shirt unbuttoned as he showed a glimpse of his chest.

Earlier in the night, the biggest night in British film returned with actor David Tennant as host and an array of guest presenters on hand to deliver awards throughout the night.

Prince William attended the ceremony in London solo as his wife Kate Middleton continues her recovery from last month's abdominal surgery.

Oppenheimer won Best Film as well as sweeping the board in the major categories at the EE BAFTA Film Awards at The Royal Festival Hall.

The epic biographical thriller led the wins with seven gongs, including Best Actor for Cillian Murphy, Best Supporting Actor for Robert Downey Jr. and Best Director for Christopher Nolan. It had the most nominations with 13.

The couple, who have now been dating for about a year, appeared in good spirits after enjoying the swanky bash at the celebrities' favourite hotspot

They couldn't keep their hands off each other as they made their way to the car looking cosy

The songstress caught the eye in a typically bold ensemble, which left very little to the imagination

The stunner also wore a sheepskin aviator jacket as she posed up a storm at the swanky event

The dancer added to the racy look with thigh-high split skirt and teased a glimpse of black underwear while slipping her feet into towering platform boots

Oppenheimer swept up in the big name categories, but it was closely followed by the surreal black comedy Poor Things.

It marked five awards for the film, including Emma Stone collecting the Best Actress gong for her turn as Bella Baxter.

Meanwhile, Da'Vine Joy Randolph crowned victorious in the Best Supporting Actress category for her part in The Holdovers as she continues her march to Oscars glory.

Next up, Director Jonathan Glazer and producer James Wilson's The Zone Of Interest won the BAFTA for Outstanding British Film.

The night kicked off with French legal drama Anatomy Of A Fall winning the Original Screenplay award after premiering in Cannes back in May.

Poor Things won the BAFTA for special visual effects.

Following this, drama film Earth Mama was honoured with the BAFTA outstanding debut by a British writer, director or producer, presented by David Beckham.

The Zone Of Interest won the BAFTA for a film not in the English language.

The BAFTA for Casting was awarded to Susan Shopmaker for private school-set The Holdovers, while the editing award has gone to Jennifer Lame for Second World War biopic Oppenheimer.

Comedy drama American Fiction won Best Adapted Screenplay.

The Boy And The Heron won the Best Animated Film Bafta.

The Documentary BAFTA went to 20 Days In Mariupol, which highlights the work of Associated Press journalists in the besieged Ukrainian city during the Russian invasion.

Oppenheimer won Best Film as well as sweeping the board in the major categories during the swanky ceremony (Cillian Murphy with Best Actor Oscar)

Oppenheimer swept up in the big name categories, but it was closely followed by the surreal black comedy Poor Things (Emma Stone pictured with Best Actress Award for Poor Things)

The BAFTA for Production Design went to Shona Heath, James Price and Zsuzsa Mihalek for surreal comedy Poor Things, about a woman who is reanimated and begins a new life.

It was previously announced the BAFTA for Outstanding British Contribution to Cinema would go to programmer and archivist June Givanni, founder of the Pan African Film Archive, who collected the prize during the ceremony from Bridgerton star Adjoa Andoh.

Samantha Morton collected the BAFTA Fellowship from producer David Heyman, who she worked with on Fantastic Beasts And Where To Find Them.

The BAFTA Rising Star award was won by Mia Mckenna-Bruce following a public vote.

Margot Robbie, Emily Blunt, Emma Stone and Florence Pugh were among the star-studded arrivals earlier in the evening on the glitzy red carpet.