He said PM had 'surrounded himself with mediocrity'

Ray Hadley has erupted at Anthony Albanese in a fiery rant that led producers to have to censor him on live radio.

On Monday morning, the Radio 2GB host lashed out at Mr Albanese, claiming the Prime Minister had 'surrounded himself with mediocrity,' singling out three key ministers.

Hadley dubbed each of them - Immigration Minister Andrew Giles, Energy Minister Chris Bowen and Industrial Relations Minister Tony Burke - as 'Casanovas', 'because absolutely everything this mob touch they completely and utterly f**k up.

'That's what they do to the country,' he fumed. 'And if I sound frustrated, I am, I've sat through this before.

'I've been doing this for a long time, and I was here during the days of Labor from 2001 onwards. I saw it all unwind.'

Hadley said it was 'laughable' Mr Giles had been appointed Immigration Minister given he had represented asylum seekers who tried to get to Australia on board the Norwegian freighter, the MV Tampa, in 2001.

Giles has spoken about how his experience with the Tampa inspired him to pursue a career in politics - with Hadley drawing a line between that experience and recent boat arrivals in Australia's north-west.

Ray Hadley has hit out at Mr Albanese and his Labor government in a furious spray on Monday

Hadley claimed Labor's 'tinkering' with Operation Sovereign Borders had seen increased activity from Indonesian people smugglers.

The shock jock also called out Mr Albanese's reaction to the news that the asylum seekers had arrived.

On Friday afternoon, Mr Albanese fronted a press conference on the NSW Central Coast and the first question he was asked was about 30 more illegal immigrants landing, undetected, on a West Australian beach: 'Do you know anything about that?'

His response: 'I've been travelling in the car, so I haven't been advised about that.'

Hadley was not impressed: 'The person in charge of the country, the leader of the nation is unaware and not smart enough to smother it by saying look I'm taking advice on that.'

'Someone must have texted him and said look, 'We've got a problem, we've got 40-odd blokes landing off the northwest coast of Western Australia'.'

'It is just absolutely inexplicable, history dictates, it can't be argued - Labor governments are no good at protecting our borders.

'They love an illegal refugee because once they've let them in, they're voters for life. They've got the unions and illegal refugees making sure they stay in government.'

The 2GB host accused Mr Albanese of being 'unaware' of Australia's border crisis

He claimed people entering Australia illegally was almost a daily occurrence under Kevin Rudd's Labor government.

'Just like Kevin Rudd, Anthony Albanese got rid of the Temporary Protection Visas (TPVs) which were a very important part of operation borders,' he said.

'And guess what here we go again, over and over.'

Hadley then turned his attention to Energy Minister Chris Bowen, slamming a new emissions reduction plan introduced by the Albanese government this month.

The rule has come under fire in the automobile industry for imposing carbon 'penalties' on certain car models under new 2025 CO2 targets.

Owners of Australia's top-selling car in 2023, the Ford Ranger, will potentially find themselves paying an extra $6,150 because the impost, according to estimates compiled by the Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries (FCAI).

Only estimates exist right now because Mr Bowen has yet to release the government's own modelling of how the changes will affect prices.

The FCAI's estimates also suggest that the Toyota LandCruiser would be the car model hardest hit by the changes, incurring an extra $13,350 in penalties.

The 2GB host criticised a new energy emissions plan introduced by Energy Minister Chris Bowen this month which will impose 'carbon penalties' on certain car models

'Then you've got the lunacy of Casanova Chris Bowen and his policy on combustion engines. They keep saying $1,000 a year you're going to save,' Hadley raged.

'Well I've spoken to a number of new car dealers over the weekend, and they've confirmed that Australians could pay up to $25,000 more for popular utes and SUVs, while many hybrid vehicles may cop a penalty of up to $5,000 in five years under Labor's emission efficiency proposal.

'Now I bought a hybrid because I think it's sensible to have a combustion engine and be powered by a battery as well - as opposed to a total battery powered engine.

'And all of a sudden you think you are doing the right thing - and now you're going to get slugged as well.

'Casanova Bowen says hang on, they'll save $1,000 a year for fuel. But under the analysis they've done the motoring industry the Ford Ranger will go up to between $11,350 and $18,000.

'A LandCruiser from Toyota would be penalised between $19,500 and $25,000. So to get your money back, Casanova, you've got to own the LandCruiser for 25 years to break even. That's break even, not to make a quid you imbecile.'

Hadley said it was 'laughable' Andrew Giles (pictured) had been elected Immigration Minister

At a press conference last week, Mr Bowen insisted that the availability of models will not be impacted by the new plan.

'It's not a restriction on what Australians can buy,' Mr Bowen said.

'You can still buy a ute, an SUV, whatever you like … In countries with vehicle efficiency standards [like the US and New Zealand], utes and SUVs are often the top-selling car. That's up to Australians, but we'd like to see Australians have more choices within that.'

The minister said that if Australia were to catch up to US standards by 2028 then the cost of cars would reduce by roughly $1,000 per year.

The third minister Hadley singled out - Tony Burke - recently pushed through legislation that allows workers the 'right to disconnect' from bosses after hours.

The government has rushed to introduce new laws removing criminal penalties for bosses, after the rules were pushed through on short notice.