An insider told DailyMail.com that the Sorry singer is done with live gigs for now

Fans were devastated after Justin failed to join Usher for his history-making set

Justin Bieber has zero interest in performing major live shows anymore, which is reportedly why he turned down the opportunity to join Usher on stage for his Super Bowl halftime show, insiders have claimed – but he’s still interested in making music.

The Sorry singer, 29, disappointed fans when he failed to show up during Usher's record-breaking performance at the Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas last Sunday - despite widespread speculation that he might feature.

Instead the pop superstar was spotted watching the Kansas City Chiefs beat the San Francisco 49ers from the comfort of a suite, alongside his wife Hailey, 27.

Justin made the decision to not perform as he prefers to quietly make music rather than put on a show, according to insiders, who have claimed he now likes to fly under the radar like fellow singer Zayn Malik.

Justin Bieber declined Usher's invitation to perform at the Super Bowl Halftime Show because he has zero interest in playing big live shows anymore, an insider has claimed to DailyMail.com

Usher put on a record-breaking performance at the Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas on February 11 - ahead of the Kansas City Chiefs' victory

'Justin not only told Usher he wasn't interested in doing the Super Bowl, but he also said he doesn't want to do much of anything when it comes to performing,' a source told DailyMail.com exclusively.

'He has had his issues in the past with touring, whether it was his health or mental health that made him cancel tour stops, but he just has lost interest in going on a major world tour.

'He's with Hailey doing his thing, and maybe recording some music, but he is a bit of a homebody.'

Comparing Justin to former One Direction singer Zayn, the insider continued: 'He likes to be in the shadows and occasionally put out music but a full-on world tour or big performances on an awards show or the Super Bowl just doesn't fit him right now.

'It is not much of an interest or something that drives him now at all.'

Earlier this month, it was reported that Usher was having a hard time trying to convince Justin to join him for the show.

At the time, sources told DailyMail.com that the Beauty and the Beat hitmaker was 'focusing on his health' after suffering from facial paralysis two years ago.

Justin went public with his temporary facial paralysis - a symptom of Ramsay Hunt syndrome - just days after being forced to cancel dates on his Justice World Tour back in June 2022.

Justin and his wife Hailey were spotted enjoying the spectacle from the comfort of a private box

Although Justin was a no show, Usher did manage to rope in a number of musical guests, including Alicia Keys (pictured)

H.E.R (pictured) also joined the stage, alongside the likes of Lil Jon, Ludacris, Will.i.am and Jermaine Dupri

According to the Mayo Clinic, the hearing loss and facial paralysis associated with the syndrome is temporary, however, it can become permanent.

Although Justin was a no show, Usher did manage to rope in Alicia Keys, H.E.R., Lil Jon, Ludacris, Will.i.am and Jermaine Dupri for his epic performance.

In the aftermath of the show, rapper Lil Jon also revealed that Justin 'wasn't really ready' to return in front of the masses.

Speaking to TMZ Live, he said: 'We wanted to put Justin in the show, so we had the idea of doing a version of the show with Justin in it.

'But I think Justin just wasn't really ready. That's a lot of rehearsal, a lot of responsibility, a lot of time and a lot of eyeballs.

'I don't know if he was ready to do all of that, you know?'

Justin is embracing being a 'homebody' with his wife Hailey, whom he married in 2020, according to insiders

Usher took Justin under his wing back in 2008 and helped launched him to superstardom

That being said, Justin did perform an intimate set at Drake’s History Club in Toronto ahead of the 2024 NHL All-Star Weekend.

The gig marked his first show in over one year.

Justin and Usher go way back, with the legendary R&B star taking a then-14-year-old Justin under his wing in 2008 when he was on the cusp of his stratospheric rise to fame.

At the time, Usher signed him to his new joint venture, along with talent manager Scooter Braun, and the pair collaborated on Somebody to Love - the second single from Justin's first studio album, My World 2.0.