Footloose mesmerized viewers from the moment it reached screens thanks to its fancy footwork and popular tunes.

The 1984 release saw Kevin Bacon assume the role of a teenager who gets quite the culture shock after moving from the big city of Chicago to a small town in rural Southeast Texas.

He attempts to overturn a ban on dancing and rock music instituted by the efforts of a local minister, played by John Lithgow, before successfully instigating a prom.

But how many Footloose fans know the flick was actually inspired by a real town?

Elmore City, Oklahoma, had outlawed dancing from 1898 in a bid to control the amount of alcohol consumed and the associated drunken antics.

Shockingly, the ban would not be lifted until 1980 after the town's high school students protested over not being allowed a dance.

As Footloose celebrates the 40th anniversary of its release on February 17, FEMAIL takes a look at the true story behind the blockbuster.

Footloose, starring Kevin Bacon, mesmerized viewers from the moment it reached screens thanks to its fancy footwork and popular tunes

Elmore City, Oklahoma, had outlawed dancing from 1898 before finally allowing the first prom (left) to take place 82 years later - it was the inspiration behind the blockbuster (right)

Elmore City is a farming and oilfield town with a current population of 700-plus.

But, pre-statehood, it implemented a strict law that forbade public dancing within the city limits in a bid to cut out carousing.

The movement had been spearheaded by a local minister who considered the practice to be satanic worship - and it would remain in place for 82 years, through 15 presidencies.

But things all changed during the 1979/1980 school year when students began to get itchy feet.

Members of the junior class, who were responsible for planning the annual dance-free banquet, set out to change the law.

'We just wanted to have a dance in a safe place,' class member Mary Ann Temple-Lee previously told Oklahoma Gazette. 'So we put together a plan to make it a win-win.'

But it was not all plain sailing with much of the resistance to overturn the ban coming from the clergy.

Rex Kennedy and Leonard Coffee, who were prom organizers and junior class officers, told the outlet: 'We were told the school board was afraid things would get out of hand, so they were condemning us before we ever did anything wrong.

In the aftermath, the students (pictured at the prom) were 'ecstatic' and 'thrilled to death' as one added: 'We were all very proud of them for taking a stand. It was just time'

In the movie, which was later remade in 2011, protagonist Ren McCormack gave a climatic speech before the school board, telling town elders: 'There was a time for this law, but not anymore. See, this is our time to dance'

'Living in the Bible Belt, I understood their viewpoint, but I didn't see why that should keep those of us without religious convictions from dancing.

'But once we all started talking, we had the support of several teachers and our sponsors, and it snowballed from there.'

The town was left bitterly divided.

One of the most vocal people against lifting the ban was Rev. F.R. Johnson from the United Pentecostal Church in the nearby town of Hennepin.

'No good has ever come from a dance. If you have a dance somebody will crash it and they'll be looking for only two things – women and booze,' he said.

'When boys and girls hold each other, they get sexually aroused. You can believe what you want, but one thing leads to another.'

The students were undeterred, however, and brought the issue before Elmore City's five-member school board.

In the movie, which was later remade in 2011, protagonist Ren McCormack gave a climatic speech before the school board, telling town elders: 'Ecclesiastes assures us that there is a time for every purpose under heaven. A time to laugh, and a time to weep. A time to mourn, and a time to dance.

'And there was a time for this law, but not anymore. See, this is our time to dance.'

The overturning of the ban drew media attention from across the US and beyond - as camera crews flocked to the now infamous prom

Footloose, which had the working titled of Cheek To Cheek, soon went into production in Provo, Utah, with a budget of $8 million - and earned 10 times as much at the box office

In real life, the initial count came back two for and two against - until Raymond Lee, board president and local rancher who was also Mary Ann Temple-Lee's father, cast the tie-breaking vote.

He simply declared: 'Let 'em dance.'

In the aftermath, the students were 'ecstatic' and 'thrilled to death' as one added: 'We were all very proud of them for taking a stand. It was just time.'

The overturning of the ban drew media attention from across the US and beyond - as camera crews flocked to the now infamous prom.

The story of Elmore City caught the eye of American screenwriter Dean Pitchford

It even caught the eye of American screenwriter Dean Pitchford.

The creative, who won the Academy Award and Golden Globe for best original song for writing the title track from Fame around the same time, headed down to Elmore City for a week.

He collected real-life testimonies which ultimately formed the basis of his screenplay for Footloose - for which he went on to cowrite every song on the soundtrack.

The curious name of Ren was created as an amalgam of the first names of Rex and Leonard.

Footloose, which had the working titled of Cheek To Cheek, soon went into production in Provo, Utah, with a budget of $8 million - and earned 10 times as much at the box office.

Elmore City never saw the profits of the smash hit, but it has not shied away from its legacy.

In 2010, the town made national headlines once again by recreating the infamous prom on its 30th anniversary.

And, just a year later, the town hosted its first Footloose Festival which has become an annual tradition ever since - packed full of activities including a pancake breakfast, 5K run and car show.