She made a TikTok explaining how the move was 'the best decision' she made

A British woman who moved to America from the UK claims it has 'improved her quality of life' and is encouraging others to the same.

Amber Tiffeny, 20, moved to the US when she was 17 years old and has been there for three years.

She says it's made her realise the 'UK is bad vibes' and the country 'doesn't want to see you thrive'.

Her TikTok where she talks about her experience, posted under the handle @amberrtiffeny, has already been seen by more than 404,000 people and racked up over 900 comments.

The 20-year-old told viewers: 'Moving from the UK changed my quality of life. I moved to America when I was 17, turning 18 years old.

A British woman who moved to American from the UK claims it 'improved her quality of life' and is encouraging others to the same

'I'm 20 now so I've been living here for nearly three years and when I tell you, in almost three years my whole lifestyle has changed.

'Everything has just changed, moving to America improved my quality of life. I started wanting more for myself.'

She explained: 'I just started being around people who are more uplifting and business savvy. I feel like, I hate to be one of those people but, the UK is bad vibes for real.

'I don't know what it is about UK people, why they can't seem to support each other, but the American girlies over here - one thing they're gonna do is support, one thing they're gonna do is motivate, one thing they're gonna do is uplift.

'Besides the people, just like my whole mindset has changed. I moved here and I started wanting more for myself. I guess it's really just your environment'.

'I started thinking that oh my gosh, there is so much more I can achieve even while I still am young'.

Although, she also made it clear she initially 'did not want to move from the UK'.

Tiffeny revealed: 'I love the UK, still do, because I was so comfortable. I had all of my friends there, I had all of my family there and I didn't wanna move.

Her TikTok where she talks about her experience moving countries, posted under the handle @amberrtiffeny , has already been seen by more than 404,000 people and racked up over 900 comments

'I was like no, people can move here, I'm not moving - that is literally how I was.

'Growth takes place in mysterious ways and me moving to America during that time was the best decision for my life.

'I honestly thank God because I was gonna hop on a plane and take myself back to the UK, but God had other plans'.

She concluded: 'So, if you are thinking of moving out of the UK and you've been looking for a sign, let this be your sign. Don't be scared, you have nothing to be scared of.

'The UK don't wanna see you thrive - that's the people, that's the government, that's just really how it is.

'Also please do not come and bash me, this is just my personal experience, I'm just sharing my journey with the fellow girlies who have been thinking that they do want to move out of the UK.

'This has been my take on it, this has been my experience and I hope this gives you the push that you needed to move'.

Both British and American viewers flocked to the comments to give their take on the influencers divisive opinions.

Someone from the US pointed out: 'It’s all fun and games until you get a hospital bill,' alongside a crying emoji.

Another penned: 'But it’s so hard to genuinely eat healthy in America, I struggle every year'.

Others chimed in with: 'The grass is only greener where you water it' and 'It says more about you than it does the UK, if you’re really a grinder you’re gonna find a way to thrive wherever you are'.

However, some people agreed with the TikToker, writing: 'People can really be mean and miserable in the UK' and 'This is my sign to leave the UK'.

Someone else reasoned: 'UK bad vibes probably because of weather,' with someone else adding: 'I feel like the bad vibes has a lot to do with climate'.

Another viewer remarked: 'Maybe because you were a child when you were in the UK. Moving anywhere at 18 is exciting, everything seems new and fresh'.

But Tiffeny responded: 'That is true but the truth is I didn’t want to move. I actually wanted to go back to the UK'.

It comes just after an American woman living in London claimed that Londoners 'aren't nice' and said people look at her like she's 'crazy' for thanking bus drivers.

Aurora Lofton, originally from Virginia, made the move to the UK almost two years ago and is often surprised by the stark differences between the two countries.

The 27-year-old posts candid videos to her TikTok account (@aurora._victoria) about adjusting to life in the UK and has built up quite the fanbase, with 628,000 followers and 2.2million likes to date.