He's known for his pouty lips and 'sad eyes'.

But Jeremy Allen White's iconic look has been transformed by an artist, who has given him the 'perfect face' - based on science.

José Antonio Saliba overlaid a face anatomy mask on an image of The Bear star and edited his facial features to fit the template designed by the Golden Ratio.

The Golden Ratio is a mathematical equation devised in ancient Greece to determine 'physical perfection' by comparing measurements, ratios and symmetry.

The finished project shows White with sharper eyebrows, higher cheekbones, a smaller forehead and perkier eyes - but do you think he looks more attractive?

José Antonio Saliba overlaid a face anatomy mask on an image of the Hollywood star and edited his facial features to fit the template designed by the Golden Ratio

READ MORE: Jeremy Allen White showcases his incredibly chiseled body while going shirtless in new Calvin Klein underwear ad Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/sciencetech/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

White has long been known for his role as 'Lip' Gallagher in Showtime's hit series Shameless.

But the Brooklyn native has since made waves after landing the lead role as chef Carmen Berzatto in Hulu's The Bear, for which he received a Primetime Emmy Award and two Golden Globes for his acting.

The TV has also captured the hearts of an enthusiastic fanbase following his sizzling hot photoshoot for Calvin Klein where he flaunted his muscular frame.

In it, the hunk displayed his chiseled abs and strong biceps as he went shirtless for the underwear campaign.

And now White has been remade to have the 'perfect face' in a new video posted to TikTok by @jose_arrt.

The 'golden ratio' is a mathematical formula devised in ancient Greece to determine 'physical perfection' by comparing measurements, ratios and symmetry.

During the Renaissance, artists and architects used the equation, also known as Phi, as an aid during the creation of their masterpieces.

Scientists have since adapted the mathematical formula, which equates to 1/1.618, to explain what makes a person beautiful.

The length and the width of someone's face is measured and then the results are divided.

Measurements are then taken from the forehead hairline to the spot between the eyes, from the spot between the eyes and the bottom of the nose and from the bottom of the nose to the bottom of the chin.

A person is considered to be more beautiful if the numbers are equal.

Jeremy Allen White has been remade to have the 'perfect face' in a new video posted to TikTok by @jose_arrt

White's 'perfect' face has received mixed reviews on social media, with most of the more than 26,000 comments on Instagram suggesting that his original face is more attractive than the edited image.

One Instagram user commented: 'His real face has more character and personality.'

Another shared: 'One person who actually looks better with the perfect face.'

And one joked: 'Def before! That giant schnoz and sad eyes are what makes him the hottest.'

Some also noted that the edited image looks 'like Zac Efron off wish.'

Others thought the final product looked like other Hollywood stars like Scott Eastwood or Henry Cavill, best known for his role as Superman.