Gigi Hadid cut a fashionable figure as she left Bradley Cooper's house in New York City on Thursday morning.

The 28-year-old supermodel stayed comfortable in a leather jacket, crewneck sweater and Adidas sneakers after she spent her first Valentine's Day with the star of the Hangover franchise, who is 19 years her senior.

The fashion industry personality - whose partner recently purchased a Pennsylvania farmhouse just minutes away from her mother's place - completed her look with black pants, a leather purse and a fashionable pair of sunglasses, as well as a dual-tone cap.

According to Marie Claire, a messenger was spotted dropping off a sizable bouquet of red roses at Hadid's apartment in Manhattan on Wednesday morning, which appeared to have been sent by the Maestro star.

The runway regular and the Academy Award-nominated actor were later seen while wearing matching beanies and walking arm-in-arm through the Big Apple's snowy streets, per E! News.

Gigi Hadid cut a fashionable figure as she left Bradley Cooper's house in New York City on Thursday morning

The television personality and the star of the Hangover franchise were initially linked this past October, when they were pictured in each other's company as they left Via Carota in New York City.

Hadid was formerly linked to Zayn Malik, whom she dated from 2015 until 2021, and the pair share a daughter named Khai, three.

Cooper was also in a long-term relationship with Irina Shayk, and although they split up in 2019 after welcoming their daughter Lea, six, in 2017, they remain on friendly terms.

The model eventually moved on with the actor, and the two were seen riding in the same car just three days after their dinner date at Via Carota.

A source spoke to People at the time and told the media outlet that the fashion industry personality had harbored 'sort of a crush on [Cooper] for a while.'

Although the insider stressed that Hadid and Cooper were taking things slow at first, they added that there was 'an attraction' between the two.

The Silver Linings Playbook star subsequently took the Next In Fashion co-host to dinner at Giorgio Baldi in Santa Monica following the conclusion of the 2024 Golden Globes ceremony, which took place this past January.

According to Page Six, the two were joined by a group of friends that included the actor's mother, Gloria Campano, whom he brought as a date to the awards show.

The 28-year-old supermodel stayed comfortable in a leather jacket, crewneck sweater and Adidas sneakers after she spent her first Valentine's Day with the star of the Hangover franchise, who is 19 years her senior

The television personality and the star of the Hangover franchise were initially linked this past October, when they were pictured in each other's company as they left Via Carota in New York City; they are seen in January

A source spoke to People at the time and told the media outlet that the fashion industry personality had harbored 'sort of a crush on [Cooper] for a while'; she is seen earlier this month

The Silver Linings Playbook star subsequently took the Next In Fashion co-host to dinner at Giorgio Baldi in Santa Monica following the conclusion of the 2024 Golden Globes ceremony, which took place this past January; he is seen earlier this month

Another insider told People that Hadid and Cooper 'looked happy together' during their night out.

'They weren't overly affectionate, but it was still obvious that they are dating. There were lots of loving glances and flirting,' they added.

The source also stated that the model 'listened enthusiastically and kept smiling' whenever Campano spoke at the table.

Neither Hadid nor Cooper have made any public statements regarding their romance as of yet.