There are limited opportunities for comfort on board a plane, so one passenger's decision to rest their feet on the back of a fellow traveler's chair was met with fury.

In a picture shared to Reddit, a woman is seen relaxing in her seat on the Delta plane as people around her board the aircraft.

The photo was taken from behind the woman, who is in the middle set of seats.

Wearing leggings and shoes, she is seen sitting back in her seat with her legs stretched out in front of her.

The woman's feet - still with sneakers on - are resting on top of the seat in front of her.

In a picture shared to Reddit, a woman is seen relaxing in her seat on the Delta plane as people around her board the aircraft

Although there is no one sitting in the seat yet, Reddit users were up in arms over the thought of someone having the endure the flight duration in such close proximity to someone's dirty shoes.

'Unless you are willing to lick the bottom of your shoe from heel to to toe. Then you better get your feet off of the head rest,' one Reddit user warned.

'S**t like this is why it is imperative that you carry disinfectant wipes with you and wipe down everything in your seating area,' another pointed out.

'She has to slump so far in her seat just to pull this off. She has more than enough leg room, I'm sure of that,' someone else wrote. 'She's just being an a**.'

'Yes, nothing wrong with germ infested sneakers that have walked all over an airport right up against someone's head,' a fourth person said sarcastically.

'People have lost all sense of civility while flying. At least she doesn't have gnarly bare feet sticking through the armrest gap,' one person typed.

Others didn't think the feet faux-pas was as bad as other Reddit users.

'She is 100 percent in her space and kept her shoes on,' one pointed out. 'Other people are jealous that they're not flexible enough to do this.'

Reddit users shared their thoughts on the woman's relaxed pose, with mixed opinions

'During boarding? Not bothering anyone yet. Seat in front can't recline,' another agreed. 'Flight attendant will be by in a minute to tell her to take 'em down and keep 'em there. I've seen it happen. Not on Delta, but American.'

As we enter a new year of travel, an expert has put an end to debates over what is and isn't acceptable on planes.

Previously, travel expert Dawn Gilbertson shared a comprehensive list of dos and don'ts with the Wall Street Journal to make sure everyone is on the same page going into 2024 about what behaviors are appropriate up in the air - even chiming in on the debate over reclining seats on board.

Gilbertson said regardless of whether you're team recline or not, you absolutely must warn your backwards flight neighbor if you're about to launch your seat right back in their space. 'It's the polite thing to do,' she said.

She also commented on disembarking procedures, saying you should wait your turn to exit the plane - unless a flight attendant has already announced specific passengers get special privileges.