Michael J Fox moved BAFTA viewers to tears on Sunday night as he took to the stage in a wheelchair to present Best Film to Oppenheimer.

The actor, 62, who has battled Parkinson's since 1991, was helped to the podium to announce that Best Film had been awarded to Christopher Nolan's Oppenheimer, one of seven gongs for the epic.

After entering the stage in a wheelchair, Michael earned a standing ovation from stars including Margot Robbie, Bradley Cooper and Barry Keoghan, who were in attendance at London's Royal Festival Hall.

The legendary Eighties film star was visibly touched by the reaction, as he supported himself on the podium to reveal the nominees and eventual winner.

Watching from home, viewers were left in floods as tears as they hailed the star an 'icon and inspiration.'

Michael J Fox fans were moved to tears as actor stood on the BAFTAs stage to present Best Film on Sunday night amid his long battle with Parkinson's

After entering the stage in a wheelchair, Michael earned a standing ovation from stars including Margot Robbie , Bradley Cooper and Barry Keoghan, who were in attendance

Taking to X, formerly Twitter, fans shared: 'What an icon and inspiration Michael J Fox is. Nobody quite like it and so deserving of that standing ovation #BAFTAs';

'Michael J. Fox omg #BAFTAs'; 'STOP IT BAFTA IM IN TEARS THE MOMENT MICHAEL J FOX CAME ON TO THE STAGE I WAS IN FLOODS OF TEARS THE MAN IS A LEGEND #BAFTAs #BAFTA2024 #EEBAFTAs #MichaelJFox';

'I hope folk saw what Michael J Fox did there #BAFTAs . He entered stage in a wheelchair, walked to podium where he stood to present an award, then left stage in wheelchair. Hopefully silencing anyone who thinks those who stand or walk whilst using a wheelchair are “at it”.';

'Michael J Fox presenting at the BAFTA's.'; 'The world really needs more disabled people represented in prominent positions, and Fox does a fantastic job.'; 'Happy to see Michael J. Fox just won the whole BAFTAs #EEBAFTAs ❤️';

'It's gotta be said, at 11 years old he was my movie hero. I'm nearly 50 and after seeing him at the BAFTA's tonight. He's every bit the hero I remember him to be. What a legend! #michaeljfox';

'What an unbelievably moving ovation for #MichaelJFox. Not going to lie, a very tough watch.'; 'Seeing Michael J. Fox on stage at the @BAFTA Awards has had me in floods of tears after my dad sadly lost his battle with Parkinson’s . Michael you are a legend ! Thank you❤️'

'My eyes well up every time I see Michael J Fox. What an absolute hero that man is. #BAFTAs'; 'That standing ovation for Michael J Fox has broken me.'

The Back To The Future star previously walked the red carpet with his glamorous wife Tracy Pollan.

The legendary Eighties film star was visibly touched by the reaction while watching from home, viewers were left in floods as tears as they hailed the star an 'icon and inspiration'

In 2023, the star released an Apple TV+ documentary about his life in film and his subsequent diagnosis, which earned him a BAFTA nomination (pictured)

WHAT IS PARKINSON'S DISEASE AND WHAT ARE THE SYMPTOMS? What is Parkinson's disease? Parkinson's disease is a condition in which parts of the brain become progressively damaged over many years, according to the NHS website. What are the symptoms? The NHS says there are three major symptoms, including tremors or shaking, slowness of movement and muscle stiffness. Other symptoms include problems with balance, loss of smell, nerve pain, excessive sweating and dizziness. Some people can also experience lack of sleep, excessive production of saliva and problems swallowing, causing malnutrition and dehydration. What are the early signs? Symptoms can start gradually, sometimes beginning with a barely noticeable tremor in just one part of the body. In the early stages, people may show little or no expression, and their arms may not swing when they walk. Speech can also become soft or slurred, with the condition worsening over time. What are the causes? Some scientists believe a combination of genetic and environmental factors are the cause of Parkinson's disease. It occurs after a person experiences loss of nerve cells in a part of their brain. However, it is not known why the loss of nerve cells associated with the condition takes place but research is ongoing to identify potential causes. Scientists say genetics factor can increase a person's risk of developing the disease, and can therefore run in families. Other factors attributed to causing the condition include environmental problems such as pollution, though such links are inconclusive, the NHS says. How is it diagnosed? No tests can conclusively show if a person has the disease, but doctors can make a diagnosis based on symptoms, medical history and a physical examination. A specialist will ask the person to write or draw, walk or speak to check for any common signs of the condition. They may even check for difficulty making facial expressions and slowness of limb movement. How many people are affected? Around 145,000 people live with Parkinson's disease in the UK, according to the charity Parkinson's UK. What happens if someone is diagnosed? According to the charity, it is a legal requirement to contact the DVLA, as a diagnosed person will need to have a medical or driving assessment. The organisation also advises people to contact any insurance providers and find out about financial support available. People are also encouraged to partake in more exercise. Can it be treated? Although there is no cure, a number of treatments are available to help reduce the symptoms. The main remedies include medication, exercise, therapy and surgery, which can help people in different ways. What medication is available and what are the side effects? Medication can be helpful in improving the main symptoms of Parkinson's disease, such as shaking and movement problems. There are three main types which are commonly used, levodopa, dopamine agonist or a MAO-B inhibitor. Each can affect people in different ways. The drugs do have some side effects, including impulsive and compulsive behaviour, hallucinations, sleep issues and blood pressure changes. What therapy is available? There are several therapies available to those with Parkinson's through the NHS. Among them are physiotherapy to reduce muscle stiffness, occupational therapy to help with completing day-to-day tasks and speech and language coaching. Does this change the way you live? Most people's life expectancy will not change a great deal, though more advanced symptoms can lead to increased disability and poor health. It can also cause some cognitive issues and changes to mood and mental health. Those with Parkinson's are encouraged to exercise more often, with scientists saying 2.5 hours of exercise a week is enough to slow the progression of symptoms. Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Presenting the prize, he said: 'Five films were nominated in this category tonight and all five have something in common. They are the best of what we do.

'No matter who you are or where you're from, these films can bring us together.

'There's a reason why they say movies are magic because movies can change your day. It can change your outlook. Sometimes it can change your life.'

Michael was just 29 when he was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease in 1991, and went public with the information in 1998.

In 2023, the star released an Apple TV+ documentary about his career and living with the devastating disease, which earned him a BAFTA nomination.

While Michael did present the final award of the night, he was also in attendance after his documentary Still: A Michael J Fox Story received a nod for Documentary.

Speaking to BBC in light of the documentary's nomination, Michael said: 'I would say it's a gift and people would look at me and I'd say it's a gift that keeps on taking, but it's a gift.'

Since being diagnosed, Michael has been praised for his tireless work fundraising in a bid to find a cure for Parkinson's. He founded The Michael J. Fox Foundation to aid research efforts.

Michael said: 'I realised I had to turn it around and turn it into something and make it some positive thing that affected other people in a positive way.

'So I think that's why I started the foundation, but it took me a long time to get there.'