Home appears from street level to be nothing more than a small gatehouse

If you're looking to go underground, this luxury rental in Cheshire that costs £15,000 a month may be just the ticket.

Away from prying eyes, the property appears from street level to be nothing more than a small glass gatehouse, not much bigger than a modern garden shed.

However, venture inside and you're led down a contemporary sweeping staircase into the main living space of a spectacular designer three-bedroom house, which the estate agent has dubbed 'James Bond-esque'.

This property in Cheshire's Altrincham is available to rent for £15,000 a month via Savills estate agents

The main living space in the luxury rental property is at the centre of the subterranean home

At the centre of this subterranean home in the affluent area of Altrincham is the dining area with a substantial bar area and DJ booth.

It leads to a seating area with a large screen television and a separate area with a kitchen and central island.

There are three bedrooms found on the outer edge of this circular lower ground level, with one of the bedrooms leading out to a terrace and another with a skylight.

From street level, the property appears to be nothing more than a small glass gatehouse

The street level entrance leads down a contemporary sweeping staircase into the main living area

The central dining table is surrounded by a bar area and leads through to the modern kitchen

The designer home has never been lived in and features a well stocked - and untouched - bar

The kitchen has triple ovens as well as a central island with a seating area and windows to the outdoors

The center of the subterranean living space has fashionable herringbone wooden flooring

There is a car lift and underground garage that leads directly into the main living space.

There is a terrace area off this same living space with a hot tub and spiral staircase to the garden above.

The property is available to rent via Savills estate agents, which explains in its marketing literature: 'Never before lived in, the property is exceptionally private, with impressive security.'

The property has a car lift and underground garage that leads directly into the main living area

There is a terrace area off the main living space with a hot tub and spiral staircase to the garden above

The landscaped garden includes a covered outdoor seating area and some paved walkways

The property extends across a total of 3,639 square feet with one living area opening out to the next

There are three bedrooms found on the outer edge of this circular lower ground level, with this bedroom featuring a skylight

The property is available to rent fully furnished and is available immediately. It extends across a total of 3,639 square feet and the rental deposit is £27,692.

The property is near the amenities of the fashionable Hale village - prime territory for Premier League footballers - and the centre of the town of Altrincham.

Nearby, there are plenty of golf courses and leisure clubs, along with the National Trust's Dunham Massey Hall and park.

The main outdoor garden is not at the rear of this unique property, but rests on top of it

This double bedroom has a separate dressing area and leads out to an outdoors terrace space

There are three bathrooms, including this one with large colourful slabs of decorative marble

The property is available to rent fully furnished and is available immediately, with a deposit of £27,692

Tom Burke, of Savills, said : 'This striking and contemporary energy-efficient home presents a truly unique opportunity to live in a property like no other.

'Almost completely hidden from view beneath circular gardens, it is a secret bolthole which reveals itself behind electric gates and beneath a glass gatehouse.

'I've never before been in such a James Bond-esque house, accessed via a vehicle lift and underground drive-in garage, the property has been impeccably designed with state-of-the-art appliances, technology and amenities, including a spectacular entertaining area, bar, DJ booth and hot tub to provide a light-filled, yet private luxury home.'