Breakthrough developments in the cold case disappearance of Revelle Balmain almost 30 years ago have led to the NSW Coroner opening a second inquest.

Model Revelle, 22, was last seen in the Sydney suburb of Kingsford on November 5, 1994.

A makeup bag, keys and a single shoe found on nearby streets were all that remained of her life.

Ms Balmain worked as a model and dancer, but had also just started working as a prostitute to make ends meet.

Her last known booking before she disappeared was with a client on McNair Avenue in Kingsford.

After an anonymous tip-off and a mystery photograph, police uncovered a new person they believe is linked to the case and three 'premises of significance' were later raided.

Revelle Balmain (pictured) was last seen in the Sydney suburb of Kingsford on November 5, 1994 and a make-up bag, keys and a single shoe found on nearby streets were all that remained of her life

READ MORE: Cold case mystery of glamorous Sydney woman who disappeared without a trace in 1994 A missing person poster for Revelle Balmain is pictured Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/news/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

On Monday, NSW Deputy State Coroner Joan Baptie held a hearing to set down a second inquest to begin on April 29.

The coroner heard that outstanding material in the police brief was expected to be served within a week.

Magistrate Baptie was also told that an updated statement would be sought from the police officer in charge to be tendered in addition to his primary statement.

A week has been set aside for the inquest.

The previous coronial inquest in 1999 found Ms Balmain died at the hands of a person or persons unknown, with the matter referred to the unsolved homicide unit.

No-one has ever been charged over Ms Balmain's disappearance.

Ms Balmain only joined the escort agency she worked for, which was run by Jane King and her then husband Zoran Stanojevic, six weeks before she disappeared.

Last year, Ms King claimed she had new information that Ms Balmain had been booked to meet Mr Stanojevic's Serbian friends later on the night she disappeared.

There is no suggestion that Mr Stanojevic is being investigated by police.

In December 2021, he was arrested on unrelated charges as police reinvestigated her disappearance.

He was one of five men arrested in Sydney in relation to an alleged Serbian crime syndicate.

The focus of initial investigations focused on Ms Balmain's last known client, Gavin Samer, who denied any involvement and claimed he dropped her at a nearby pub after his appointment.

In 1999, the coroner found that Mr Samer 'certainly had the opportunity to kill Ms Balmain', but 'no plausible motive' ever emerged.

Mr Samer has never been charged, and there is no suggestion police still consider him a suspect.

A lawyer for Mr Samer dialled into the court hearing on Monday.

In May 2021, a $1million reward for information about Revelle Balmain's disappearance was announced. Ms Balmain is pictured

A makeup bag, keys and a single shoe found on nearby streets were all that remained of her life

Ms Balmain's sister Suellen Simpson also joined the court hearing by videolink and watched the proceedings in silence, the Sydney Morning Herald reported.

Both of her parents died without ever knowing what happened to Revelle.

'For many years our family worked tirelessly to find out what happened to my sister – but sadly both our mother and Revelle's father, Ivor, passed away without ever knowing what happened to their little girl,' Ms Simpson said in 2021.

Detective Chief Inspector Stuart Bell and trike Force Aramac took over Ms Balmain's case in 2020.

The following year, a $1million reward for information about her disappearance was announced.

'Revelle's family has been campaigning for justice for more than 26 years and strike force detectives are determined to finally find the answers they are seeking,' Insp Mr Bell said at the time.

Several months later in July 2021, the strike force revealed that it had received new vital information, including a blurry photograph of a man wearing sunglasses and a white T-shirt sitting at a wooden table.

Revelle Balmain's parents died without knowing what happened to the model ad dancer

The photo was sent anonymously, but the man was later identified. Strike Force Aramac was trying to establish where he had been on the night Ms Balmain went missing.

'The new line of inquiry is we're looking at a person that was previously unknown to Revelle, (who) may have met her on the night of her disappearance,' Mr Bell said at the time.

Ms King, who was Ms Balmain's former employer at the escort agency, said the $1million reward had come years too late and she feared the police had missed vital clues.

She said Ms Balmain's 'posse', including two women from the agency and a doctor, had never been questioned.