Kansas City Chiefs team heiress Gracie Hunt has been criticized for ending a statement on the fatal shootings at their Super Bowl parade with pictures of herself enjoying the celebrations.

One person was killed and 21 have been left injured after two gunmen opened fire at the Chiefs' grand homecoming on Wednesday, where they were parading the Vince Lombardi Trophy for a second straight year after Sunday's win at the Super Bowl.

Fans were left fleeing for their lives after the gunshots rang out at Union Station, before some of them were seen heroically tackling an armed man to the ground.

Police said two gunmen were detained, although their identities remain unclear.

Following the horrifying scenes, Gracie - the 25-year-old daughter of Chiefs CEO Clark Hunt - posted an emotional message on X (formerly Twitter) in which she urged people to 'hug those you love extra tightly tonight'.

Kansas City Chiefs team heiress Gracie Hunt has been criticized for her statement on the fatal shootings at their Super Bowl parade

The Chiefs' parade descended into tragedy on Wednesday when gunmen opened fire

Hunt, the daughter of team CEO Clark, posted a heartfelt message on social media - but received criticism for including photos of herself enjoying the parade before the shooting

Hunt, pictured alongside Taylor Swift at a Chiefs game back in December, was slammed for sharing 'selfies' amid the tragedy

The former Miss Kansas USA included photos of herself waving to fans before the shooting

'The most beautiful, perfect day of love, laughter, & celebration at the Chiefs Super Bowl parade turned upside down in an instant. I’m still processing today’s tragedy,' said the former Miss Kansas USA.

'I love this city and I’m angry at what took place and heartbroken for the victims, their families, & the KC community. This world is broken and thank God it is not our home. I’m thankful for the hope of Heaven. Life is precious and each day is a gift. I’m grateful for a Savior whose sacrifice on the cross gives us the assurance of a perfect eternity in Heaven - with no death, no fear, no grief, and no pain. If you don’t have that - I promise you, you want it when you’re facing that moment.

'Thank you to the first responders for your swift actions that saved more lives from being lost. Thank you to KCPD, Chiefs security, brave citizens, and everyone at Union Station who worked to manage the chaos and pandemonium. Kansas City - hug those you love extra tightly tonight.

'We love you big this Valentine’s Day and always.'

However, to a number of fans' dismay, Hunt accompanied that statement with four photos of herself celebrating at the parade and posing with the Lombardi Trophy.

Several users were quick to hit out at her on X, with one writing: 'Nice words. Maybe skip the posting of the silly selfies and PR photos on this one?

Another commented: 'I feel like the selfies at the end of your statement are a weird flex but ok'.

A third said: 'People got shot and killed. You need a PR person'.

A fourth put: 'Unnecessary selfies when you're describing a tragedy. We all figured you were enjoying yourself before this happened.'

Fans were quick to hit out at Hunt for posting them amid the tragedy of Wednesday's shootings

Hunt (second from left) with brother Knobel (left), mom Tavia (center), dad Clark (second from right) and sister Ava (right)

The Kansas City heiress was in Las Vegas for their Super Bowl victory over the weekend

Hunt posed with the Vince Lombardi Trophy at Allegiant Stadium after Sunday's victory

'Nice words,' said another. 'I would’ve left the pics for another day & just posted the message but what do I know'.

While one said sarcastically: 'Anyway, here's some pics of my fabulous outfit.'

Three people are in custody in connection with the incident, including the young man tackled to the ground by a heroic group of fans as he attempted to flee the scene.

Kansas City Mayor Quinton Lucas gave an update on the investigation on Thursday morning, saying he is considering blocking any Super Bowl victory parades next year if the Chiefs win again following Wednesday's horror mass shooting.

'I'm sorry that this happened yesterday,' Lucas said.

'We worked hard to put on an exceptional parade, we spent millions on it, but we failed to keep everybody safe and that's something I have great guilt over.'

Brittany Mahomes, the wife of Chiefs quarterback Patrick, posted to Instagram in the aftermath of the mass shooting.

Brittany was one of the people walking the streets and participating in the event which came to an end with the sound of gunfire at Union Station.

In two Instagram stories, she wrote: 'Shooting people is never the answer. Praying for Kansas City and America in general, this is rough.'

She continued by saying: 'Highly embarrassed and disappointed in this, Super Bowl wins will never be the same because of this, it's devastating.

Fans flee after shots were fired near the Kansas City Chiefs' Super Bowl LVIII victory parade

The shooting led to a rapid evacuation of the area, which just moments before was packed with parade-goers

Brittany Mahomes, the wife of Patrick, posted to Instagram after Kansas City's shooting

She posted twice to her Instagram story offering prayers and bemoaning the tragedy

'Lives lost and people injured during something that was suppose[d] to be a celebration.'

Chiefs wide receiver Marquez Valdes-Scantling has also vowed to help children being treated in hospital after the shootings.

According to NFL Network reporter James Palmer, 11 children are being treated in the nearby Children’s Mercy hospital, nine of whom have gunshot wounds.

'Any chance anyone can help me get in touch with these kids or families?' Valdes-Scantling wrote on social media.

'First off I want to make sure they’re doing ok. But would love to help them out any way I can and get them some stuff from the team to help with the recovery.'