Jameela Jamil opted for a campy look as she attended the British Vogue BAFTAs after party in a glamorous black strapless gown.

The English actress and activist, 37, looked striking as she stepped out for the star-studded party at private members' club Annabel's in London following the ceremony.

Jameela donned a black figure-hugging gown, which had a plunging sweetheart neckline and a split up the left leg.

She wore her dark tresses in very loose waves, while her vampy make-up look consisted of a dark red lipstick and heavy smudged eyeliner.

The Good Place actress accessorised the ensemble with a statement ring and necklace matching set, buckled stilettos and a simple black shoulder bag.

Jameela Jamil opted for a campy look as she attended the British Vogue BAFTAs after party in London on Sunday in a glamorous black strapless gown

The English actress and activist, 37, looked striking as she stepped out for the star-studded party at private members' club Annabel's following the ceremony

Dua Lipa led the stars who stepped out for the event on Sunday, as she looked stunning in a sheer black lace dress and joined stylish Cara Delevingne, racy Rosie Huntington-Whiteley and Anya Taylor-Joy.

She turned heads in the strappy number that had a feather trim and revealed her gorgeous curves, while accessorising with a statement choker.

Meanwhile model Cara, 31, took the plunge in a daring silver gown with stud detailing as she posed up a storm.

She boosted her height with strappy black heels and wore her honey tresses in loose waves over her shoulders while opting for glowing makeup.

Elsewhere actress Anya, 27, flaunted her toned abs in a gold Fendi bralet which she teamed with a beige silk skirt.

She wore matching Jimmy Choo heels and gave a pop of colour to her makeup look with a dark pink lip.

Rosie, 36, put on a racy display in a sheer polka dot skirt which she wore with a simple roll neck jumper and pointy heels.

Kaia Gerber, Anna Wintour, Rochelle Humes and AJ Odudu were among other stars attending the afterparty.

Jameela donned a black figure-hugging gown, which had a plunging sweetheart neckline and a split up the left leg

The Good Place actress accessorised the ensemble with a statement ring and necklace matching set, buckled stilettos and a simple black shoulder bag

Dua Lipa turned heads in the strappy number that had a feather trim and revealed her gorgeous curves

Anya Taylor-Joy made sure to turn heads in her skimpy outfit as she posed up a storm for the cameras at the afterparty

Rosie, 36, put on a racy display in a sheer polka dot skirt which she wore with a simple roll neck jumper and pointy heels

THE BAFTA WINNERS AT A GLANCE Best Film - Oppenheimer Best Director - Christopher Nolan, Oppenheimer Supporting Actor - Robert Downey Jr, Oppenheimer Leading Actor - Cillian Murphy, Oppenheimer Leading Actress - Emma Stone, Poor Things Supporting Actress - Da'vine Joy Randolph, The Holdovers Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Oppenheimer has won Best Film as well as sweeping the board in the major categories at the EE BAFTA Film Awards at The Royal Festival Hall on Sunday.

The epic biographical thriller led the wins with seven gongs, including Best Actor for Cillian Murphy, Best Supporting Actor for Robert Downey Jr. and Best Director for Christopher Nolan. It had the most nominations with 13.

The biggest night in British film returned with actor David Tennant as host and an array of guest presenters on hand to deliver awards throughout the night.

Prince William attended the ceremony in London solo as his wife Kate Middleton continues her recovery from last month's abdominal surgery.

Murphy, 47 - who plays the titular role in Nolan's atomic bomb saga - picked up the prize at the prestigious awards ceremony.

He triumphed against Bradley Cooper for Maestro, Colman Domingo for Rustin, Paul Giamatti for The Holdovers, Barry Keoghan for Saltburn and Teo Yoo for Past Lives.

Accepting the trophy, he said: 'Oh boy, holy moly, thank you very, very much BAFTA.'

He paid tribute to 'the most dynamic, kindest producer-director partnership in Hollywood: Chris Nolan and Emma Thomas, thank you for seeing something in me that I probably didn't see in myself.'

Cillian Murphy accepts the Leading Actor Award for Oppenheimer

Emma Stone accepts the Leading Actress Award for Poor Things

Christopher Nolan won the Best Director BAFTA for Oppenheimer, his epic tale of how the nuclear bomb was created

The Irish actor said to Nolan: 'Thank for always pushing me and demanding excellence because that is what you deliver time and time again.'

Nolan also acknowledged his 'fellow nominees and my Oppenhomies', adding: 'I know it's a cliché to say, but I'm in awe of you.'

He said J Robert Oppenheimer was a 'colossally knotty character', adding: 'We have a space to debate and interrogate and investigate that complexity and it's a privilege to be a part of this community with you all.

Downey Jr, 58, also collected a BAFTA for his role as Lewis Strauss in the Hollywood blockbuster, which has swept the board during the 2024 awards season.

He admitted he owes the award to Nolan, producer Emma Thomas and leading man Murphy, as well as 'British influence'.

Gesturing to Nolan, he said: 'Recently that dude suggested I attempt an understated approach as a last ditch effort to resurrect my dwindling credibility.'

Downey Jr's win set a new record for the longest gap between wins by any performer as it comes 31 years after his previous BAFTA, for the 1993 film Chaplin.

The previous record was 27 years, set by Sir Anthony Hopkins in 2021 when he won the award for best actor for The Father, nearly three decades after his 1994 win for Shadowlands.