Love Island fans were left fuming as 'fake couple' Georgia Harrison and Anton Danyluk narrowly missed being dumped from the All Stars villa on Sunday.

During the latest episode of the ITV2 show, former Islanders dramatically returned to the South African villa to vote individually for 'which couple they would like to dump'.

With the fate in the hands of the ex islanders it was newest couple Arabella Chi and Adam Maxted who were immediately dumped from the villa leaving fans shocked.

As the stars gathered around the fire pit, Mitch Taylor, Chris Taylor, Kaz Kamwi, Tyler Cruickshank, Casey O'gorman all voted for Georgia H and Anton to be dumped

While Eve Gale, Demi Jones, Liberty Poole, Hannah Elizabeth, Joanna Chimonides, Joe Garratt all voted for Arabella and Adam due to them only coupling up recently.

Love Island fans were left fuming as 'fake couple' Georgia Harrison and Anton Danyluk narrowly missed being dumped from the All Stars villa on Sunday

During the latest episode of the ITV2 show, former Islanders dramatically returned to the South African villa to vote individually for 'which couple they would like to dump'

With one vote between them, Arabella and Adam were sent home one day before the grand final.

Viewers were quick to take to X - formerly known as Twitter - to complain about Georgia H and Anton making it to the Love Island All Stars final despite constantly 'arguing on a daily basis' and having a turbulent relationship.

One wrote: 'I’m sorry but voting Arabella and Adam out is a cop out I swear. Georgia h and anton should of gone Fakest couple in there'.

Another said: 'How are people voting for Arabella and Adam based on time when Georgia H and Anton are a couple that argue on a daily basis and she talks to him like s***'

A third added: 'We all know Arabella and Adam are going home when it really should be Georgia H and Anton'.

Another said: 'Arabella and adam over anton and Georgia H? what a waste of votes and our time'.

'Should’ve been Georgia H & Anton going wtf how are they still there when she doesn’t even like him,' said another.

Another questioned: 'How have Georgia H and Anton survived that'.

Elsewhere during the vote Luis Morrison dropped a bombshell in the Molly Smith and Callum Jones saga, as he revealed he thought that Molly and Tom Clare's connection was 'one-sided' as he voted to send them packing.

With the fate in the hands of the ex islanders it was newest couple Arabella Chi and Adam Maxted who were immediately dumped from the villa leaving fans shocked

Viewers were quick to take to X to complain about Georgia H and Anton making it to the final despite constantly 'arguing on a daily basis' and having a turbulent relationship

Tom, who has already been rattled by allegations that there is still a connection between his partner Molly and her ex-boyfriend Callum, asked Luis what he meant.

Luis confirmed that he believes there is still something between them after watching the series play out on TV after leaving the villa.

Meanwhile Jake Cornish had another opinion and admitted that he thought Georgia Steel and Toby Aromolaran were the weakest couple, as he gave them their only vote.

It comes after Georgia H and Anton had a number of rocky days in the villa.

And after another brawl, which saw the duo sleep in separate beds, Anton turned to Toby to discuss how he is feeling about his relationship with Georgia.

Anton revealed in recent days that his feelings for Georgia are getting stronger and stronger each day but was unsure if it was being reciprocated.

While they seemed to have squashed the drama following Tuesday's tense challenge and appeared to be getting back on track, Friday's episode saw the duo fall out once again.

Toby said: 'In here, I feel like you feel everything. The good, the bad…'

Anton said: 'I feel like a lot of it, I’ve just been holding it in for weeks and it all came out last night.'

Toby said : 'You do have to depend on your couple in here a lot of the time. To be your rock, your person you can lean on…'