It turns out oyster shucking is a bit of an art form.

The main aim, of course, in this high-stakes operation, is to avoid gruesome self-inflicted injury – and for total beginners like me, that starts with scouring YouTube for tutorials from sensible-looking cooks.

Luckily at the beautifully renovated farmhouse, La Reverie, near the village of Gouville-sur-Mer in the Manche department of Normandy, you will find all you need for a safe introduction to this risky yet rewarding activity - including a medieval-looking chainmail glove and shucking knife and, if you need it, some safety instructions from the owner, James, on how to prise open these sumptuous local delicacies.

Thankfully, there are also plenty of experts at restaurants and markets who will do the job for you in this seafood-heavy corner of France – the ideal spot for a family beach holiday.

One of the great benefits of La Reverie is that it's easy to drive to from the ports of Caen and Cherbourg. Our party of four adults and two children crossed on an early-morning Brittany Ferries service from Portsmouth on a Saturday morning.

Julian and his family stayed at the beautifully renovated farmhouse, La Reverie, near the village of Gouville-sur-Mer in the Manche department of Normandy

The gîte is just a short distance to vast, sandy, west-facing beaches with endless sand and rock pools - and a coastline dotted with pop-up restaurants and beach bars. Pictured: Les Cabanes at Gouville-sur-Mer beach

The house has all the tools you need to try out local oysters. And there are plenty of experts at restaurants and markets who will do the job for you

From La Reverie and its sister property opposite, it is a gentle 10-minute cycle-ride past orchards, fields and charming hamlets to Gouville-sur-Mer with its weekly market and boulangeries.

And from there it is just a short distance to vast, west-facing beaches with endless sand and rock pools - and a coastline dotted with pop-up restaurants and beach bars.

A must-visit is La Cale, a rustic wooden cabin that – in slightly chaotic fashion - dishes up oysters, huge mounds of moules frites and hunks of lamb or sausage cooked over a roaring wood fire.

It’s the perfect place to watch the sun set with a crisp Muscadet or local cidre as tractors haul in huge loads of freshly-harvested shellfish.

Back at La Reverie, there is everything you need to cook up a storm yourself in what is a fabulous kitchen.

The property, painstakingly renovated by the owner himself and awarded five stars by the French Tourist Board, is set on a quiet country road with a pool, hot tub, barbecue and outdoor furniture in a charming landscaped garden.

At La Reverie, there is everything you need to cook up a storm yourself in what is a real cook’s kitchen

Inside, there are modern appliances throughout with luxurious bedrooms and bathrooms and plenty of bikes, games, books and guides to keep you busy

One of the great benefits of La Reverie is that it's easy to drive to from the ports of Caen and Cherbourg, notes Julian

TRAVEL FACTS Julian was hosted by Dream Gites and Sawday’s. Prices for La Reverie start at £2,000 per week. Rating out of five: 4.5 GETTING THERE Brittany Ferries from Portsmouth to Cherbourg and return from Caen. Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/travel/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Inside, there are modern appliances throughout with luxurious bedrooms and bathrooms and plenty of bikes, games, books and guides to keep you busy.

The interior is also filled with artwork and quirky antiques.

If the weather is not playing ball or for off-season visits, there’s even a projector for watching films – or just set off for trips to yet more markets at nearby Blainville and Coutainville, the Old Town at Granville, the magnificent Maison du Biscuit (a big hit with the kids for its tasty free samples) and local antiques centre La Clé des Temps.

In our case, we enjoyed superb weather with trips to the beach, lazy days by the pool, horse riding in the sand-dunes and, of course, feasting on the region’s heavenly gastronomic delights.

The tourism board of La Manche proudly declares on its website – ‘for a stay or forever’.

As our week came to an end, we wished it was the latter.