Kaia Gerber joined boyfriend Austin Butler in a rare public outing on Thursday, as she accompanied him to the Dune Two premiere afterparty in London.

The 22-year-old model held hands with the Elvis actor, 32, as they made their way inside the star-studded soirée.

Kaia stunned in a sparkling brown maxi dress that clung to her supermodel physique. She added height to her frame with silver heels, and accessorized with a gold clutch.

The beauty carried a fur coat under her arm in case the evening got chilly. Meanwhile Austin looked cool as ever in a low-cut white shirt under a black blazer and pants.

Earlier at the premiere Austin gushed about Kaia's recent British Vogue cover, calling it 'legendary.'

Kaia Gerber joined boyfriend Austin Butler in a rare public outing on Thursday, as she accompanied him to the Dune Two premiere afterparty in London

The 22-year-old model held hands with the Elvis actor, 32, as they made their way inside the star-studded soirée

The model appeared on the magazine cover alongside her superstar mom, Cindy Crawford, 57, and 30 other inspiring women, including Serena Williams, Gigi Hadid, Oprah Winfrey and Dua Lipa.

'It was legendary,' Butler told ET. 'It was amazing. I loved getting to see that. What an exciting cover. I loved it.'

The pair first sparked romance rumors in December 2021, before going public with their relationship in March 2022.

Austin also spoke about his new film, explaining: 'I was a fan of the book from the time I was 15. I was an enormous fan of the first film, so I feel very fortunate to be a part of this. It's really exciting.'

Butler is a newcomer and will play Feyd-Rautha Harkonnen, Baron Harkonnen’s young nephew, and planned successor as ruler of Arrakis.

He stars alongside A-listers including Zendaya, Timothée Chalamet and Florence Pugh, in the project.

'It's such a fun group of people in general that we have a lot of fun together. They're inspiring to me in many ways, so we all have fun together.'

Zendaya, 27, arrived to the bash in a slinky black dress, and her tresses slicked down in a wet look.

Austin looked cool as ever in a low-cut white shirt under a black blazer and pants

Kaia stunned in a sparkling brown maxi dress that clung to her supermodel physique

She added height to her frame with silver heels, and accessorized with a gold clutch

The pair first sparked romance rumors in December 2021, before going public with their relationship in March 2022

Earlier at the premiere Austin gushed about Kaia's recent British Vogue cover, calling it 'legendary'

'It was legendary,' Butler told ET. 'It was amazing. I loved getting to see that. What an exciting cover. I loved it'

Inside the event Kaia showed off her outfit in front of the shutterbugs

Her brunette tresses were styled in light waves

The actor was seen signing autographs on his way in

He happily interacted with fans

Butler is a newcomer to Dine 2, and will play Feyd-Rautha Harkonnen, Baron Harkonnen’s young nephew, and planned successor as ruler of Arrakis

Zendaya, 27, arrived to the bash in a slinky black dress, and her tresses slicked down in a wet look

The beauty paired her outfit with flower shaped diamond earrings and delicate glam

She posed for snaps on her way to the bash

Supporting her inside was boyfriend Tom Holland, 27, though the private pair didn't pose for snaps together

Timothée Chalamet, 28, showed off his trendy style in an oversized short-sleeve top and beaded silver pants, which he paired with black boots

Kylie Jenner's boyfriend accessorized with a number of silver rings and wore his tresses in bouncy curls

Florence Pugh, 28, dazzled in a hooded dark sequin gown, which she teamed with silver jewelry

Anya Taylor-Joy, 27, took the plunge in a low-cut white gown, which she sparkled up with a long silver necklace

She accessorized with a number of rings

She posed with Edgar Wright at the event

Zoe Zimmer, 36, was chic in a black gown with a sultry midriff mesh panel

She was pictured posing with her dad, iconic German film score composer and music producer Hans Zimmer, 66

(L-R) Dina de Luca, Hans, Zoe and Ryan Rubin

Tanya Lapointe wowed in a baby blue gown with a fringe, while Barbie filmmaker Greta Gerwig, 40, looked chic in a black coat and brown gown

Marc Jacques-Burton and Ella Mapes made a stylish duo at the party

(L-R) Jason McNab, Magdalena Sverlander, Marc and Ella

Producer Cale Boyter was accompanied by a stylish Cassandra Wilson

Swedish actor Stellan Skarsgard, 72, who plays Baron Harkonnen in the film, and director Denis Villeneuve, 56, both looked sharp in suits

Lea Seydoux, 38, was spotted arriving to the bash in a plaid jacket

The beauty paired her outfit with flower shaped diamond earrings and delicate glam.

She completed the look with black heels and a large green ring on her finger.

Supporting her inside was boyfriend Tom Holland, 27, though the private pair didn't pose for snaps together.

The Spider-Man: No Way Home star rocked a black vest over a black tee and pants.

Timothée Chalamet, 28, showed off his trendy style in an oversized short-sleeve top and beaded silver pants, which he paired with black boots.

Kylie Jenner's boyfriend accessorized with a number of silver rings and wore his tresses in bouncy curls.

Anya Taylor-Joy, 27, took the plunge in a low-cut white gown, which she sparkled up with a long silver necklace.

The beauty wore her platinum strands in a straight style, and added a pop of color to her look with red lipstick.

Earlier at the premiere Zendaya commanded attention in a silver Thierry Mugler robot suit from his fall/winter 1995 Couture Collection

She was seen posing with Chalamet

Florence wowed in her gown

Austin looked dapper as ever

Florence Pugh, 28, dazzled in a hooded dark sequin gown, which she teamed with silver jewelry. The star also wore her signature silver nose ring.

Zoe Zimmer, 36, was chic in a black gown with a sultry midriff mesh panel. She wore her tresses in a high black bun and accessorized with gold earrings.

She was pictured posing with her dad, iconic German film score composer and music producer Hans Zimmer, 66.

Tanya Lapointe wowed in a baby blue gown with a fringe, while Barbie filmmaker Greta Gerwig, 40, looked chic in a black coat and brown gown.

Swedish actor Stellan Skarsgard, 72, who plays Baron Harkonnen in the film, and director Denis Villeneuve, 56, both looked sharp in suits.

Lea Seydoux, 38, was spotted arriving to the bash in a plaid jacket.

Others present at the party included, Cale Boyter, Cassandra Wilson, Marc Jacques-Burton, Ella Mapes, Jason McNab, and Magdalena Sverlander.

Chalamet will be reprising his role as Paul Atreides, the heir to the now-decimated House Atreides, who has been abandoned with his mother on the desert world of Arakis while the members of House Harkonnen who are responsible for his family's slaughter take over the planet's lucrative natural resources.

Zendaya was introduced briefly in the first film as Chani, a member of the desert-dwelling Fremen tribe who will teach Paul how to survive in the punishing environment so that he can lead her people to rise up against the galactic forces colonizing their planet.

After multiple delays, Dune: Part Two is now set to hit theaters on March 1, 2024

Pugh is a newcomer to Dune and will play Princess Irulan, the daughter of the Emperor.

Dune: Part Two was originally meant to be released on October 20, 2023 before being pushed back to November 17, and later to March 15, 2024, due to the SAG-AFTRA actors' strike.

After multiple delays, the film is now set to hit theaters on March 1, 2024.

Dune: Part One and Part Two are based on Frank Herbert's novel of the same name, which was originally published in 1965.