A new poll has found that more than half of Australians have forgiven Prime Minister Anthony Albanese for breaking his promise on stage three tax cuts.

The DemosAU survey conducted earlier this month found 51 per cent supported Labor's recently overhauled stage three changes, which will give more take home pay to low and middle income earners.

The question asked sought to get people's true feelings about the Prime Minister's motives by included the line 'critics say the changes break an election promise'.

Of the other 49 per cent, 32 per cent were opposed to the changes while 17 per cent were undecided, the survey of 1154 Aussies showed.

Support for the changes is higher among older Australians, with 54 per cent of people aged 55 or over backing the newly-engaged Mr Albanese.

A new survey has found that more than half of Australians believed Prime Minister Anthony Albanese (pictured with fiancée Jodie Haydon) did the right thing by breaking his promise on stage three tax cuts

Poll Do you agree with Anthony Albanese's broken promise on stage three tax cuts? Yes No Undecided Do you agree with Anthony Albanese's broken promise on stage three tax cuts? Yes 86 votes

No 452 votes

Undecided 16 votes Now share your opinion





Other polls, whose questions did not specifically mention that Labor's stage three changes were a broken promise, showed higher support.

The Australia Institute's polling, for instance, found that two-thirds of voters in the Victorian seat of Dunkley, where a byelection will be held in March, favour the cuts.

The latest survey found Labor voters were the strongest supporters of the changes, followed by the Greens and other minor parties.

But 46 per cent of Liberal and National voters opposed the changes, with just 41 per cent in favour.

How much a person currently earns did not seem to have much impact on their views about the tax cuts, with even those whose tax cut will be lower than under the original Coalition plan overall supporting the Labor version.

About 54 per cent of people earning $200,000 or more support the changes, but just 43 per cent of those making $45,000 or lower backing the cuts.

The DemosAU survey found 51 per cent were in favour of Labor's stage three changes, which will give more take home pay to low and middle income earners. People are pictured in Sydney's Pitt St Mall

There were also some differences by state, with 35 per cent of Queenslanders against the changes, while 33 per cent opposed the cuts in NSW and just 29 per cent of Victorians are against them.

'Opposition to the changes to stage three is higher in the DemosAU poll than any other public polling,' DemosAU director George Hasanakos told the Daily Telegraph.

'This probably reflects the larger prominence of the term "broken promise" in the DemosAU formulation of the question.'

Mr Hasanakos said Coalition voters overall appeared 'comfortable' with Labor's changes, specifically citing older voters who are more likely to be conservative.

'It is over-55s who are the critical factor in majority support for the changes,' he said.

Labor's stage three legislation has already passed the lower house of parliament and is expected to be voted on in the Senate later this month.