Britney Spears shared a series of videos of herself dancing on Saturday.

The 42-year-old pop star took to Instagram and posted several since-deleted clips of herself in a studio, dancing in a variety of risqué outfits and even smoking at one point.

The only post that is still up at the time of publication is a video of herself twirling around in her 'nude' crop top and micro shorts.

The since-deleted videos included one of herself wearing a '69' jersey and later modeling a yellow bra as she flipped off the camera.

The Gimme More singer — who shared two dancing videos of herself 'keeping it classy' on Friday evening — also posted a video with a caption about her wanting to lose weight.

Britney Spears shared a series of videos of herself dancing again on Saturday. The 42-year-old pop star took to Instagram and posted several since-deleted clips of herself in a studio, dancing in a variety of risqué outfits and even smoking at one point

In one video, she puffed on a 'white stick', as she called it, and wore a baby pink T-shirt, which she tied in a knot to reveal her midriff

'Ok so I was a little excited to get a studio,' she wrote.

'It's actually really cute and at night it's way hotter and I sweat ... I'm trying to lose weight ... I kind of like it ... normally no thank you but hmmmmmm'.

The Princess of Pop was definitely getting a workout in as she shared another video, comprising of multiple clips of herself wearing a variety of skin-baring looks.

In the video of her puffing on a 'white stick', as she called it, she wore a baby pink T-shirt, which she tied in a knot to reveal her midriff.

She wore a pair of very low-rise, striped shorts and threw on an oversize men's button-down over her racy outfit.

She was seen spinning and sauntering in the studio while wearing a pair of white, knee-high boots.

She wrote: 'I used to do this in The Big Apple in my 20s with the boys ... they would sometimes stand up while doing acting scenes at the movies and embarrass me... they were incredibly good too !!'

It is unclear what she was referring to.

The Gimme More singer also posted a video with a caption about her wanting to lose weight

The only post that is still up at the time of publication is a video of herself twirling around in her 'nude' crop top and micro shorts

In the video of her puffing on a 'white stick', as she called it, she wore a baby pink T-shirt, which she tied in a knot to reveal her midriff. She wore a pair of very low-rise, striped shorts and threw on an oversize men's button-down over her racy outfit

She was seen spinning and sauntering in the studio while wearing a pair of white, knee-high boots

She also shared a video of herself dancing in an extremely cropped football jersey with the number 69 emblazoned across her chest

She also wore her black shorts and black boots with a bright yellow bra top with ruffles lining the top of the bust in another dancing snippet

'There's just something about this white stick in my hands... ok I was feeling myself,' she added alongside several diamond emojis.

She also shared a video of herself dancing in an extremely cropped football jersey with the number 69 emblazoned across her chest.

She teamed the raunchy top with a pair of white micro shorts and matching boots.

At one point, she had also worn the top with her black shorts.

She also wore her black shorts and black boots with a bright yellow bra top with ruffles lining the top of the bust in another dancing snippet.

On the same day, she had posted videos of herself showing off her moves in two of the outfits from clips she shared on Friday evening.

On the same day, she had posted videos of herself showing off her moves in two of the outfits from clips she shared on Friday evening. The Toxic hitmaker also wore a patterned wrap blouse, which she previously described as her 'classy' nude-colored outfit

In the video with the caption mentioning weight loss, she wore a hot pink bikini top adorned with gold hardware and chains, but this time, she wore it with a pair of black short shorts and matching knee-high boots

In all of the videos, she danced animatedly — flipping her hair, shaking her hips and showing off her incredible balance as she twirled and turned to the music

In the video with the caption mentioning weight loss, she wore a hot pink bikini top adorned with gold hardware and chains, but this time, she wore it with a pair of black short shorts and matching knee-high boots.

The night before, she had shared a clip of herself wearing the pink bikini top with the striped shorts she now paired with her tied-up T-shirt look.

The Toxic hitmaker also wore a patterned wrap blouse, which she previously described as her 'classy' nude-colored outfit.

In all of the videos, she danced animatedly — flipping her hair, shaking her hips and showing off her incredible balance as she twirled and turned to the music.