A blistering heatwave will continue to scorch parts of Australia while thousands were left without power as thunderstorms and heavy rain lashed swathes of the country.

Temperatures will continue to soar in Western Australia after the state became the hottest place on earth on Sunday as the mercury reached 49.9C at Carnarvon Airport.

Perth surpassed the record for the most number of consecutive days above 40C within a one month period with the city marking the sixth straight day of unpleasant conditions on Monday.

The city's previous record was set in 1933 when four days of above 40C temperatures was reached with the record later matched in 1985 and 2016.

Meanwhile parts of Australia's east coast are in for a drenching with showers and thunderstorms forecast for Sydney, Canberra and Brisbane.

Lightning strikes cut off power to at least 13,000 homes on Sydney's northern beaches while four people have been hospitalised.

Dry and mostly cloudy conditions are predicted for Melbourne in a welcome reprieve after Victoria was battered by monstrous storms last week.

Parts of Australia will continue to face another severe heatwave as the hot and humid conditions persist (pictured beachgoer)

Lightning strikes cut off power to at least 13,000 homes on Sydney's northern beaches while four people have been hospitalised

Sydney

The NSW capital will reach a maximum of 27C with showers thunderstorms lashing the city on Monday.

Ausgrid's outage tracker showed almost 13,400 houses are currently without power.

Four people were hospitalised after taking shelter under a tree at the Royal Botanic Garden before it was struck by lightning.

A 19-year-old man and a 20-year-old woman were transferred to RPA Hospital while a 36-year-old man and a 36-year-old woman were taken to St Vincent's Hospital.

Flash flooding has also been reported at Wyong, Tuggerah and Randwick.

The harbour city is expected to remain mostly cloudy throughout the start of the week, however humid conditions are expected further down the line.

Temperatures will reach tops of 31C on Thursday while tops of 32C are expected on Friday.

Weatherzone senior meteorologist Brett Dutschke told Daily Mail Australia that wet weather is also likely to occur throughout the week.

'There's a chance of showers or a storm each day between now and Friday,' he said.

'Some storms have the potential to be severe'.

The thunderstorms are expected to provide some relief from the sticky conditions that will hang around the city.

A cool southerly change is likely to arrive with an 80 per cent chance of showers on Friday.

Melbourne

A cloudy start to the week is expected for Melbourne across Monday and Tuesday due to a cool change brought about by fresh southerly winds.

The city is expected to bear the brunt of some warmer conditions with the mercury hitting tops of 35C on Thursday.

Another cool change is expected to settle in later in the day due to northerly winds with the Bureau of Meteorology forecasting wind gusts of up to 45km/h.

Mr Dutschke said the cool change is expected to last from Friday through to the weekend with temperatures reaching tops of 23C on Sunday.

Sydney is set to bear the brunt of showers and thunderstorms (pictured) which have been forecast for most of the week

Brisbane

Thunderstorms and showers will drench the capital of the Sunshine State with the wet weather conditions expected to last for most of the week.

Mr Dutschke said humid conditions are also likely to settle further down the track, which he said was typical for the month of February in Brisbane.

'The warmth and humidity will peak [on] Thursday, Friday, Saturday,' he said.

'That's the period when humidity will be even more that what's typical for this time of year'.

A dry change is expected to move in on Sunday tops of 34C expected on Saturday.

Perth

The BoM has issued a severe heatwave warning for central, western and southern parts of the state which is expected to last until Wednesday.

Perth will hit tops of 43C on Monday with 40km/h wind gusts to take hold on what is set to be a mostly cloudy day.

A sea breeze is likely to come through in the afternoon to create a cloudy rest of the day.

Two schools in Perth's north, Cervantes Primary School and Jurien Bay District High School, closed their doors on Monday due to an increased risk of bushfires.

While the heatwave is expected to persist across Perth on Tuesday a cool change is expected to come through by the middle of the day.

A stronger cool change will move through on Wednesday providing some relief before temperatures quickly pick back up for the latter half of the week with strong wind gusts up to 30km/h expected.

Tops of 36C are expected for Friday.

Meanwhile ex-tropical cyclone Lincoln is moving west from the Top End towards the Kimberly in WA's north.

The weather system is likely to reach waters north of the Pilbara on Wednesday.

The BoM has forecast it will redevelop into a tropical cyclone on Thursday with heavy rainfall and damaging winds set to sweep across the area.

Parts of WA were the hottest place on earth (pictured) over the weekend with temperatures reaching almost 50C

Central, western, and southern parts of WA is in the grip of a severe heatwave that is expected to last until Wednesday

Canberra

A partly cloudy day is expected across the national capital for most of Monday with a high chance of showers.

The wet weather is likely to persist until Thursday with tops of 27C on Wednesday.

A cool and mostly dry weekend has been forecast.

Adelaide

Temperatures will reach tops of 35C on Monday and Tuesday before a cool change moves in.

The warm weather is set to become cooler from Thursday with the weekend expected to be mostly dry.

Parts of the east coast are set for unsettled weather conditions with a mix of hot and dry weather (pictured beachgoers)

The warm weather will also be interrupted by showers and thunderstorms (pictured)

Hobart

A cloudy day is expected for Hobart for Tuesday and Wednesday before temperatures warm up on Thursday with tops of 33C.

A cooler change is expected late on Thursday with wind gust up to 35km/h expected on Friday.

The weekend is set to be mostly dry.

Darwin

Mr Dutschke said Darwin is looking at a mostly dry week but there are chances of showers and thunderstorms forecast for each day.

Tops of 32 are expected for Monday with Friday to be the hottest day this week with temperatures reaching a maximum of 33C.

'The monsoon that had been over the Top End is weakening,' Mr Dutschke said.

'[It will] be a little bit warmer than normal for this time of the year'.

A watch and act alert has been issued for parts of the Northern Territory as ex-tropical cyclone Lincoln which is currently near Tennant Creek moves south west.

Parts of the Stuart Highway was closed off to motorists due to flooding with drivers urged to avoid the area.

The Gregory, north Tanami and the Barkly regions could face the threat of flash flooding with six-hourly rainfall totals up to 150mm expected.