Taylor Swift fans are furious after spotting an Eras Tour wristband for sale online for an eyewatering $500.

The superstar took to the stage at in Melbourne on Friday in front of 96,000 people at the MCG - the biggest show of her career.

The free LED wristbands are given to ticketholders who attend the sold-out show and they light up in sync to create immersive visual effects.

But hundreds were furious when one attendee from Victoria decided to sell the memorabilia on Facebook Marketplace for an exorbitant amount.

'500?! for a flashing wristband?! Swifties really are in a world of their own,' a woman wrote.

Taylor Swift stormed the stage at the Melbourne MCG on Friday in front of 96,000 people - the biggest show of her career

But fans spotted an LED wristband from the show on Facebook Marketplace for $500 (pictured)

The Facebook post was liked by more than 550 people, with many calling the behaviour out as 'a joke'.

'I can assure you, no die hard Swiftie would do this,' one commented.

'They were literally for free at the concert,' another pointed out.

'Someone will buy it too.. insanity,' another added.

Someone else called it 'delusional' and noted others were selling their wristbands for $20 each.

'Why would anyone actually buy it though, let alone spend that kind of money on it?! Like to me it's a cool memento if you actually went to the concert and enjoyed it so I get that, but if you didn't go it's kind of pointless,' someone else wrote.

The free LED wristbands are given to ticketholders who attend the sold-out show and the high tech light up in sync to create immersive visual effects. Similar technology has also been used by the likes of Lady Gaga and Coldplay

Similar technology has also been used by the likes of Lady Gaga, Coldplay and K-Pop stars at concerts.

Online scalpers are common when it comes to Swift items due to her insane popularity.

Unfortunately other items have also been listed for outrageous prices.

After a quick search on Facebook Marketplace, there's a VIP Eras Tour box price at $200, the discontinued Wonderstruck perfume selling for $375 and $10 friendship bracelets.