Megan Thee Stallion tantalized her Instagram followers on Sunday as she shared photos from her birthday celebration.

The Houston-bred rap artist turned 29 on February 15 and rang in her special day in a hot pink co-ord consisting of shrunken velvet shorts and a revealing crop top.

Engaging her 31.8 million fans on the app, she wrote in the caption: 'Thank you to everyone who came out and celebrated my birthday with me.'

She added, 'yall made my week so amazingggg im so happy. Love yall ! Andddd thank you to all the hotties that came together and got me A WHOLE BILLBOARD to tell me happy birthday!!!!

Then the Grammy-winning star teased: 'I love yall and I cant wait for yall to see whats next.'

Megan Thee Stallion tantalized her Instagram followers on Sunday as she shared photos from her birthday celebration

The Houston-bred rap artist turned 29 on February 15 and rang in her special day in a hot pink co-ord consisting of shrunken shorts and a revealing crop top

Engaging her 31.8 million fans on the app, she wrote in the caption: 'Thank you to everyone who came out and celebrated my birthday with me'

She showed off her enviably taut tummy in her skimpy top, which had a crisscross neckline that revealed her ample cleavage.

The bright, long-sleeved number boasted blue and pink stone accents along the trim.

The Hiss hitmaker slipped her feet into a pair of open-toe, pink, platform heels before switching them out for a pair of roller skates.

Some scenes in the selection of images showed her at a skating rink where she posed on the sprawling wood floor.

One featured the beauty in a pair of pink socks and black skates as she smiled with a balloon in her hand.

Her jet black hair was styled in long, voluminous, cascading waves.

Megan, full name Megan Pete, was surrounded by friends in the carousel of snapshots.

The group enjoyed a meal at a Japanese restaurant where they enjoyed a delicious-looking spread.

Megan, full name Megan Pete, was surrounded by friends in the carousel of snapshots

Her jet black hair was styled in long, voluminous, cascading waves

Megan's face was carefully done up with feature-accentuating makeup

The self-proclaimed hot girl took to Instagram to announce her new collaboration with Nike on Thursday.

She modeled the athleticwear as she flaunted her signature raven hair.

Alongside the Texas native were more models in a variety of pieces from the collection.

'It’s giving details. It’s giving versatility. It’s giving wear it at the gym or the club,' said the singer.

'Hotties, my first collection with Hot Girl Systems is here. Inspired by how I want y’all to feel – like the hotties you are.'

The collaboration came as a surprise with no prior marketing.

One fan wrote in the comments: 'One thing about Megan is she doesn’t let the media stop her shine.'

The Hiss hitmaker slipped her feet into a pair of open-toe, pink, platform heels before switching them out for a pair of roller skates

The bombshell included Polaroid shots in her reflective post

Megan gave fans who got her a billboard a shoutout in her Instagram caption

The group enjoyed a meal at a Japanese restaurant where they enjoyed a delicious-looking spread

The limited collection of training gear was released in conjunction with her birthday.

On February 20, a broader release will be made available via Nike and other select retailers online and in-person.

According to Nike's website, the prices of the pieces range from $40 to $200.

The items include bodysuits, jacket onesies, bras, pro shorts, and crop tees and all items come in plus size to accommodate 'all the hotties.'