Barry Keoghan has made a major change for his career as he is reportedly quitting the UK to head to Los Angeles.

The Saltburn star, 31, is said to have moved to Hollywood for the foreseeable future to work on his next projects after the success of his starring role in Emerald Fennell's psychological thriller.

He is also making the move across the pond to take his relationship with Sabrina Carpenter to the next level as the pair grow closer together.

A source told The Sun: 'Barry is in demand at the moment and Los Angeles is where it is at.

'He is also wanting to spend as much time with Sabrina as possible given their hectic work schedules.

Barry Keoghan , 31, has reportedly made huge career move as he takes his relationship with Sabrina Carpenter to the next level

The Sun revealed the Saltburn star has moved to Hollywood for the foreseeable future as he works on his next projects and enjoys being closer to girlfriend Sabrina

'Barry is keeping in touch with his family over the phone and they are having to adapt to him spending more time in the States.'

Barry is currently dating the American actress and singer 24,, after the pair were first linked to the Irish actor late last year in December.

The couple attended their first public event together earlier this month after confirming their new romance.

The singer and Barry were pictured cosying up at W Magazine's star-studded Grammys after party, despite their separate red carpet appearances.

Barry split from his long-term girlfriend Alyson Kierans last year amid reports they were rowing about his late night partying. The two welcomed their first child together - a son - in August 2022.

In January, Barry and Sabrina were spotted on a sweet date at an art gallery. A fan had seen the pair at the museum and captured a few images which were later shared on TMZ.

An eyewitness told People at the time that, 'It definitely seemed like a date,' and noted that the pair looked 'cute' together and also 'shared a little kiss.'

The pair reportedly first met during Paris Fashion Week last year in September while at the Givenchy fashion show.

A source told the publication: 'Barry is in demand at the moment and Los Angeles is where it is at. He is also wanting to spend as much time with Sabrina as possible given their hectic work schedules'

Barry is currently dating the American actress and singer after the pair were first linked to the Irish actor late last year in December

Earlier this week Sabrina appeared to be wearing Barry's Harvard hoodie as she touched down in Melbourne on Friday

Meanwhile Sabrina appeared to be wearing the Irish star's Harvard hoodie as she touched down in Melbourne on Friday to open for Taylor Swift during her Australian leg of her Eras tour.

As she arrived at Melbourne Airport, she was greeted by fans, including Tiktokker Tornadothingss who filmed her arrival.

Online sleuths in the comments of the clip made the connection to Barry's grey university jumper, which he has shared on Instagram previously in a selfie.

'That's Barry Keoghan's Harvard sweatshirt omg,' wrote one, while another advised 'yesss Google: Barry Keoghan Harvard sweatshirt and you'll see a pic of him.'

'Omg it really is,' wrote another follower, while another expressed disbelief: 'No way!'

'She's wearing his sweatshirt so random,' said another fan.