Jacob Elordi appeared worse for wear as the actor was spotted out and about for the first time since an alleged pub altercation.

The Saltburn star, 26, looked weary as he strolled Sydney's streets, wearing tracksuit pants, a T-shirt and scuffed Onitsuka Tiger sneakers.

The shirt bore an amusing graphic of William Shakespeare apparently smoking a joint.

It featured the words, 'Doobie or not doobie? That is the question'.

The Priscilla actor added a touch of class to his low-key outfit by carrying a Christian Dior book tote, valued at around $4800.

Jacob Elordi (pictured) appeared worse for wear as the actor was spotted out and about for the first time since an alleged assault

The Saltburn star, 26, looked weary as he strolled Sydney's streets, wearing tracksuit pants, a T-shirt and scuffed Onitsuka Tiger sneakers

Jacob's hair was tousled for the outing which came just days after he was accused of getting rough with an Australian radio employee.

Elordi was accused of assaulting radio producer Joshua Fox, 32, outside the Clovelly Hotel in Sydney's eastern suburbs at 3.30pm on Saturday, February 3.

Fox was sent to the Clovelly Hotel by KIIS FM to film a video of Elordi, who was there with two men and a woman.

The shirt bore an amusing graphic of William Shakespeare apparently smoking a joint

Jacob's hair was tousled for the outing which came just days after he was accused of getting rough with an Australian radio employee

Elordi was accused of assaulting radio producer Joshua Fox, 32, outside the Clovelly Hotel in Sydney's eastern suburbs at 3.30pm on Saturday, February 3

He said he waited for The Kissing Booth actor to leave the venue before approaching him.

Fox playfully asked the actor for a sample of his bathwater as a gift for radio host Jackie 'O' Henderson.

The request is a reference to an infamous scene in Elordi's runaway hit film, in which another character drinks Elordi's character's bathwater.

Fox was sent to the Clovelly Hotel by KIIS FM to film a video of Elordi, who was there with two men and a woman

The Priscilla actor added a touch of class to his low-key outfit by carrying a Christian Dior book tote, valued at around $4800

Fox claims Elordi realised he was filming and demanded he delete the footage.

He said he initially obliged and deleted the file, but when Elordi then asked him to delete it from his recently deleted files folder, Fox refused.

'I'm thinking if I delete this footage, there's no evidence that this encounter happened,' Fox said.

He then alleged Elordi, who stands at 1.96m, 'got up in his face' and 'backed him against a wall' and 'grabbed his throat', as his two male friends surrounded him on either side, preventing Fox from stepping away.

Fox broke his silence over the shock confrontation on the Kyle & Jackie O show on Monday morning, with NSW Police since confirming that an investigation has been launched after a 32-year-old was allegedly assaulted by a 26-year-old.

Daily Mail Australia has contacted Elordi for comment on the allegations.