Unlocking the door to your own poolside villa on a gorgeous Greek island feels like the height of sophistication - and it can come at a bargain price.

Booking an exclusive Solmar Villas retreat makes your holiday fund stretch further, with villas priced from as little as £549 per week. Getaway costs are slashed even more when you split the sum between family and friends.

Steeping you in ease and relaxation, every villa comes with its own private pool, and they’re located in some of Greece’s most sought-after destinations, with many a stone’s throw from postcard-worthy beaches, tavernas and shopping hotspots.

Embrace your inner Greek god or goddess with a getaway to your own private paradise - a poolside villa courtesy of Solmar Villas

With villa holidays, there’s no fretting over securing a sun lounger by the pool and every guest has the space to feel at home. Leisurely pool days lead to twilight barbecues, enjoyed at your own pace.

And you're not limited to just Greece - Solmar Villas has properties in Portugal, Cyprus, Spain, France, Turkey, Italy, Croatia and the USA too, with a portfolio that encompasses more than 2,000 private villas with pools, half of which are exclusive to the trusted British brand.

On top of that, Solmar Villas has a variety of villa and flight packages to choose from - cutting out the hassle of holiday planning.

Villa packages to fit a range of budgets are an easy way of getting away for a little peace and quiet (Pictured: Villa Koule, Crete)

And you'll feel secure in the knowledge that you can tap into twenty-four-seven in-resort support and villa managers on the ground, should you have any questions.

For Greek island luxury that won't bust your budget, pick the sophisticated poolside villa that's perfect for you…

CRETE

With ancient archaeological sites, a rich food heritage and a bounty of beautiful beaches, Crete, the largest of the Greek islands, will sweep you off your feet.

Along the northwestern coast lies port city Chania, its picturesque streets and architecture defined by spells under Ottoman and Venetian rule. Feast in family-run tavernas, shop for souvenirs in the covered market and wander through the archaeological museum that’s housed inside a magnificent 16th-century monastery.

Base yourself at Villa Koule, perched on the cliffs of nearby hamlet Kalami.

Expect front-row views of the Aegean Sea from the three-bedroom retreat, whether you’re floating in the private pool or sipping Greek ‘freddo cappuccino’ on the balcony.

Nestled near Kalami and surrounded by greenery, Villa Koule is a gem that does not disappoint

Unmatched views of the Aegean are yours to enjoy from your sun lounger, and enjoyed out of all coast-facing windows of the property

Stroll through the three-storey villa’s verdant gardens, before flopping on a sun lounger and taking it easy for the day.

Later, watch the sunset over the sea as you enjoy feta-laden Cretan salads and a bottle of local wine in the shady pergola - it's outdoor living of the highest order.

Feeling adventurous during your stay? Discover the many sides to Crete and lounge on the pink-sand Elafonissi Beach, marvel over the Minoan frescoes of the Palace of Knossos and trek through the imposing Samaria Gorge.

PELOPONNESE

Peloponnese, a sun-drenched peninsula of mainland Greece, has long been considered an island thanks to the completion of the Corinth Canal in the late 1800s.

And its landscape, with deep blue bays and olive groves, is the stuff that Greek island dreams are made of.

It’s awash with history too, studded with ancient temples, Greek theatres, Venetian castles and Ottoman fortresses.

Relish relaxation and sightseeing in equal measure at boutique Villa Koroni in the south - while vibrant Koroni town centre is a short drive away, the three-bedroom retreat is circled by enchanting Greek countryside.

A short drive from Koroni sits four-bedroom find Villa Koroni, with a four-posted sun lounger that are made for relaxation after your morning dip

Sunsets over hillside views of the verdant countryside are yours to enjoy

Wrapped in a neutral colour palette, the abode is light-filled and stone-walled, with a spacious open-plan kitchen and living area. Ideal for watching the sun rise with an early morning coffee, bedrooms boast sea-facing balconies.

Ready for some Vitamin D? A four-poster day bed and sun loungers overlook the turquoise pool.

Spend afternoons in Koroni, an elegant Messenian town with cobbled streets, a bustling esplanade and painterly sea views. Get lost in its 13th-century Venetian castle and plant your towel on golden Zaga Beach.

Or time travel as you explore the hillside ruins of Ancient Messene, a vast city founded in 369 BC, and tour the impressively preserved Nestor's Palace, which famously appeared in Homer's Odyssey.

CORFU

It’s easy to fall under the spell of Corfu, with its UNESCO-listed Old Town, sublime Mediterranean kitchen and wealth of heavenly beaches.

That it’s steeped in myth and legend only adds to its allure - it’s said to have been a resting stop for Odysseus on his epic odyssey.

Immerse yourself in Corfiot heritage and rent out Villa Mangana, a former olive press turned rustic retreat.

A showcase of traditional Corfiot architecture, its peach walls are adorned with thick stones and green shutters.

Former olive press Villa Mangana is now an irresistible rustic retreat showcasing traditional Corfiot architecture

You'll still find elements of the villa's history decorating its interior, including the old press that gives the place an authentic feel

Inside, original machinery from the site’s olive industry days sits in the lounge, with beamed ceilings, a spiral staircase and billowing curtains further boosting the six-bedroom property's charm levels.

Set along the isle's northeastern coast, it lies on a forested hillside between two beaches - Yaliskari and Kalami.

Cypress groves and palm and citrus trees embellish the grounds, along with a 13-metre pool that faces the Ionian Sea.

Have breakfast on the roof terrace and cosy dinners on the veranda, surrounded by perfumed lavender and bougainvillaea.

It’s an easy stroll to the charming coastal village of Kalami, famed for its ties to the Durrells - author Lawrence Durrell lived in the village’s White House, now a restaurant.

Kalami (pictured) is known for its beautiful beach and ties to poet and dramatist Lawrence Durrell

Try wakeboarding or rent a self-drive boat and drift around the coast, dropping anchor in beauty spots along the way.

Later, sip cocktails as you lounge at a local beach bar or feast on ‘bourdeto’ fish stew in Kalami’s characterful tavernas.

Go beyond this sliver of coast and visit the clifftop Paleokastritsa Monastery, tour vineyards opened by creative new vintners, go on a date in Sidari's 'Love Canal' beach or marvel over flamingos and turtles on the wild Korission Lagoon.

KEFALONIA

Carpeted in Mediterranean forest and ringed by white-gold beaches, Kefalonia seduces all that land on its shores.

Winding roads lead you down to secret swimming spots, while picture-perfect harbour villages are painted in ice cream shades.

Discover an off-the-beaten-track side to the island at Villa Vitalia, a one-bedroom retreat outside traditional village Lakithra in the south.

Although a mini-market, local bakery and authentic tavernas are just a short stroll away, this romantic bolthole overlooks a stunning sprawl of countryside.

One-bedroom sanctuary Villa Vitalia has everything you need for your stay just a stone's throw away - from bakeries to tavernas

A turquoise pool and sun terrace makes this darling villa the ultimate romantic retreat

The villa beautifully frames this pastoral panorama with a shrub-lined pool and sun loungers that invite you to soak in the scenery.

Grill fresh fish on the barbecue and have lunch with a view on the shaded terrace. Or plan an intimate meal in the villa’s cool and contemporary interior, with glass doors that bring the outside in.

On a stroll in Lakithra, stop by ‘Byron’s Rock’ where poet Lord Byron is said to have perched and written poetry in the 1820s.

It’s a short drive to the hillside capital Argostoli, where locals fill lively cafes, boutiques line the streets and musicians sing traditional ‘kantades’ songs for all to hear.

Take in the vista from atop 16th-century Venetian castle Agios Georgios and hear the incredible acoustics inside shadowy Drogarati Cave.

Or throw on your swimsuit and treat yourself to a dip in the gin-clear waters of Petani Beach and Myrtos Beach.

ZANTE

Zante, also known as Zakynthos, is an island idyll that rewards exploration. Look beyond the summertime-favourite resorts and you’ll find tucked-away coves that spill into bluer-than-blue waters, traditional villages, unspoilt woodlands and scenic hiking trails.

Make yourself at home in Villa Lefki Sofita, a three-bedroom abode set between peaceful village Kypseli and the Ionian Sea.

This pocket of Zante is known for its fragrant orange trees, olive groves and bougainvillaea-garlanded houses, with quiet beaches lining the coast.

Three-bedroom abode Villa Lefki Sofita, Kypseli brings together all a family holiday should have

A fresh, airy interior can comfortably accommodate both younger and older holidayers

After mornings on the beach, return to the three-bedroom villa for a dip in the pool, a lively game of table tennis or to read your book in the shade of a parasol. Relaxed meals of toasted pita breads and ‘melitzanosalata’ dip can be prepared on the brick-built barbecue, with cinnamon-infused Zakyhnthian ‘frigania’ for dessert.

Inside the sliding glass doors, you'll find a sleek kitchen and inviting TV area - ideal for cosy family nights in.

Day trip to photogenic Navagio, also known as Shipwreck Beach, where the hull of a 157ft shipping vessel is marooned on the shore, and explore the National Marine Park of Zakynthos, established to protect the island’s treasured population of loggerhead sea turtles.

Or stroll around Zakynthos Town, stopping to admire the elaborate frescoes in the Church of St Dionysios as you wander.

Book your dream villa holiday to Greece now at SolmarVillas.com.