A woman who gave up her flat to live on a narrowboat has warned the lifestyle is 'not for everyone' despite enjoying her new life on the water.

Laura Woodley, 35, from London, made the move during the COVID-19 lockdown in 2020, after struggling to afford increasing rent costs in the capital.

Regarding herself as a 'bit of an unconventional person,' Laura looked at alternative ways to live while spending less, and soon became inspired to buy a boat.

Having previously observed how narrowboat communities live while on walks near her local canal, Laura was attracted to the more laid back lifestyle.

She said: 'The standard, cookie-cutter life pattern has never appealed to me.'

A content creator who gave up her apartment to live on a narrowboat has warned the lifestyle is 'not for everyone' despite enjoying her new life on the water

'I had a fantastic experience living with housemates, but when I reached 31, I was getting to a stage where I wanted to live alone. Living on a boat felt like the obvious next step.

'Lots of people in London live on canals around the city in "narrowboats," which are usually 6 feet 10 inches wide. I'd see people sitting together on the boats, and I knew I wanted to be a part of it.'

After spending a period of time researching online about life on boats, Laura decided to take out a loan and travelled 60 miles to Northampton to pick up her new boat home.

The TikTok influencer, who had already been making a living from creating content and boasts over 100K on her account @canalcore, said that once she had bought the vessel, it 'made sense' to start posting videos on Instagram.

She told BusinessInsider: 'I began posting about my life on a narrowboat on Instagram and TikTok to connect with like-minded people. I enjoyed the sense of community that came with connecting with people online who had done similar things.

However, although she enjoys living on a boat, Laura wants to make it clear that the lifestyle is 'not for everyone.'

She said: 'Many people think that I'm living on a boat to save money, but I actually spend more than I did when I was renting, although I now live alone instead of with roommates.'

Laura is still repaying large amounts of money after taking out the initial loan to buy the boat, with sums of £650 paid each month until early 2025.

Laura Woodley, 35, from London, made the move to a boat during the COVID-19 lockdown in 2020, after struggling to afford increasing rent costs in the capital

She also says that one of the main expenses while living on a canal boat is the license required to keep the vessel on UK waters, which costs £60 a month.

She added: 'I don't have access to utilities, but other bills, such as laundry (when I don't have access to friends' houses), coal and wood for heating, and the cost of pumping out the toilet waste, come to about £190 a month.'

Maintenance, meanwhile, costs Laura around £175 a month, and has to keep an unspecified amount of money in savings in case anything unexpected happens - such as her chimney that had fallen off in recent years and had cost £700 to fix.

Laura often finds herself having to fix most maintenance issues, as she 'can't just call a landlord,' and embarks on 'two mile' walks to dispose of rubbish.

The content creator warns that keeping on top of everything can feel like having a 'part-time job,' stating that she was not used to having so much responsibility in comparison to renting a flat.

However, although she enjoys living on a boat, Laura wants to make it clear that the lifestyle is 'not for everyone' and cites mounting responsibilities and maintenance costs

Ultimately, although she has experienced difficult times while living on a boat, Laura isn't ready to give up on her new lifestyle, and credits her local community for keeping her going.

She said: 'When you live in a house, you can just stay in your own little bubble, but on a boat, you have to extend kindness because you'll probably need help at some point, too.

'It's important to go into it with realistic expectations, though. I wouldn't tell people to just go for it because it's a difficult life. From the outside, it can seem really tranquil and idyllic, but it's not always like that.'

It comes after Shannon Lane, 29, was sick of paying £900-a-month for a room in a three-bedroom apartment in Clapton, East London, and so decided to purchase a narrowboat.

However, it's not all been smooth-sailing and Shannon says she experienced 'boat blues' as she grappled with freezing weather, learning to move the boat, emptying the toilet and refilling her water.