Diversity were forced to cancel their Sheffield show on Saturday evening with only a couple of hours notice.

The former Britain's Got Talent's stars were due to perform at Sheffield City Hall as part of their 2023 Supernova tour.

However, Ashley Banjo has sustained an injury which has left him 'struggling to walk' and unable to perform.

Sharing a post on their official Instagram page, Diversity said: 'IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT!!

'Due to an injury sustained during the Matinee show, tonight's Diversity performance will not take place.

Diversity were forced to cancel their Sheffield show on Saturday evening with only a couple of hours notice (pictured: Ashley Banjo)

The former Britain's Got Talent's stars were due to perform at Sheffield City Hall as part of their 2023 Supernova tour

Sharing a post on their official Instagram page, Diversity said: 'IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT!! Due to an injury sustained during the Matinee show, tonight's Diversity performance will not take place.'

'Please keep hold of your tickets and await further information over the coming days.'

Ashley later posted a video on Instagram to explain he was left 'struggling' to walk after the incident.

He said: 'We're all absolutely gutted about tonight's show in Sheffield… I'm currently struggling to walk let alone dance with the injury, hence why we have had to postpone so close to the show.

'But we're doing our best to work it out and get the shows back on track as soon as we can.

'We're so sorry to everyone who has already made their way to the venue. I promise you this is not a decision taken lightly. And I know how disappointing it is for a show to be cancelled last minute. If there was any other way, we would've have made it work.

He signed off by saying: 'Sorry once again and I'll keep you updated soon. Much love.'

Ashley later posted a video on Instagram to explain he was left 'struggling' to walk after the incident

It comes after Dancing On Ice viewers called for Johnny Weir to be a permanent judge on the ITV show as he replaced Ashley during Sunday's show.

American figure skater Johnny, 39, made his debut on the judges panel during Musicals Week, as well as performing for fans.

Professional dancer Ashley, 35, announced during last Sunday's show he is taking a break from DOI to hit the road with his dance group, Diversity.

Ashley is due to return to the panel alongside Oti Mabuse , Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean in time for the show’s semi-final.

Johnny immediately won over the audience with his intelligent critiques, with fans impressed by his constructive comments.

Viewers demanded the pro skater be drafted in as a permanent replacement for Ashley, with one penning: 'Can we keep Johnny please'

It comes after Dancing On Ice viewers called for Johnny Weir to be a permanent judge on the ITV show as he replaced Ashley during Sunday's show

Professional dancer Ashley, 35, announced during last Sunday's show he is taking a break from DOI to hit the road with his dance group, Diversity

Ashley is due to return to the panel alongside Oti Mabuse , Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean in time for the show’s semi-final

Another wrote: 'Can we have Johnny Weir as a judge every week? He's SO much better than Ashley. He knows what he's talking about with the skating and he's actually giving harsh and real criticism'

Johnny, who competed on season 29 of Dancing with the Stars in the US, is preparing to jet to London ahead of the next show.

On Monday, Johnny broke his silence on the news, telling his Instagram followers: 'Good morning everyone, I've just hopped on the ice for my final practice before I head off to London tomorrow to take part in Dancing On Ice which is one of the biggest skating TV shows in the entire world.

'In all my 27 years of skating I've never performed on the ice in the UK so looking forward to that and seeing all the couples perform and sitting next to Jane and Christopher!'