Mist-shrouded mountains, mesmerising underwater statues, a baby monkey being 'scolded' by its mother and a supermoon being 'held' by a skyscraper.

And a busy 'double' roundabout - serving both cars and pedestrians.

These are some of the scenes captured by stunning winning and shortlisted National and Regional entries in the Sony World Photography Awards 2024.

The renowned contest runs several competitions each year with more than 395,000 submissions from more than 220 countries pouring in for 2024.

The overall champions in the Student, Youth, Open and Professional competitions will be announced on April 18 and their work will go on display at London 's Somerset House from April 19 to May 6.

Scroll down to see 11 of the shortlisted and category-winning National and Regional images.

This spectacular image shows Ba Den Mountain, shrouded in mist. With an elevation of 3,268ft (996m), the peak, which resembles an upside-down bowl, is the tallest in Vietnam’s Mekong Delta. At its summit stands a Bodhisattva statue, which was cast from more than 170 tons of red bronze. At 236ft (72m) tall, it is the tallest bronze Buddha statue in Asia located on a mountain peak. Photographer Tran Tuan Viet wins the Vietnam National Award with this captivating shot

LEFT: This captivating image by Ju Shen Lee, the winner of the Singapore National Award, shows an elephant taking a sand bath in Nepal. The photographer explains that sand protects an elephant's skin against insect bites and keeps it warm in the cooler months, adding: 'The fine sand found along the Narayani River makes a perfect "bath".' RIGHT In this intimate scene, a snow monkey and her baby enjoy a hot spring in Jigokudani Monkey Park in Nagano Prefecture, Japan. The photographer, Seongmin Park, said: 'The photograph reminds me of a baby monkey being scolded by its mother.' The image takes second place in the Republic of Korea National Awards

Behold Belfry Island, located in the middle of the sacred Titicaca Lake in Bolivia. Photographer Reynaldo San Martin earns a spot on the shortlist in the Latin America Regional Awards for this dreamy image

Photographer Kyaw Htet picked up the Myanmar National Award for capturing this serene scene in such a spellbinding manner. The picture shows a couple fishing on Inle Lake in Myanmar beneath the shade 'of a majestic, sprawling tree', with the photographer adding: 'The reflections on the water add an extra touch of beauty to the moment'

LEFT: Vlatko Rafeski is on the shortlist for the Cyprus, Greece, Bulgaria and North Macedonia Regional Award thanks to this hypnotic picture, which shows a waxing crescent moon above Kozjak lake in Macedonia. The photographer explained: 'As I was using a telephoto lens, I made two exposures to stack together, which ensured I got a sharply focused moon and foreground. I find this type of moon mystical.' RIGHT: A supermoon seemingly balances on top of the Saudi Public Investment Fund tower in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, in this striking image taken by Yasser Alomari. It wins the Saudi Arabia National Award

This image, by Diana Buzoianu, wants to provoke the viewer into thinking about the complex interplay of different species and the harmony kept within our environment. So says the Sony World Photography Awards of this incredible image, which shows a shoal of fish swimming among underwater statues. It makes the shortlist in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania and Moldova Regional Award

LEFT: Wilfrido Enriquez is behind the lens of this eye-catching image of Cotopaxi volcano, taken dozens of miles away in Quito in Ecuador. It is on the shortlist in the Latin America Regional Award. RIGHT: Photographer Reginald James Lorico captured this sunrise over Tehran, impressing the judges enough to win gold in the Philippines National Awards. 'The sunlit building reminded me of the monolith in the film 2001: A Space Odyssey,' the photographer says