Emily Blunt cut a chic figure as she attended the British Vogue and Tiffany & Co afterparty at celeb hotspot Annabel's in London on Sunday.

The Oppenheimer star, 40, flaunted her toned abs in a plunging white bralette which displayed her ample cleavage and was adorned with quirky feathers.

Emily completed the enemble with cropped black blazer and a figure-hugging maxi skirt as she joined a whole host of fellow A-lister at the swanky event.

She accessorised with simple earrings as well as sparking broaches on her lapel and a gold love heart buckle at her svelte waist.

Emily, who had been nominated for Best Actress, took to award show's red carpet earlier in the evening in a jaw-dropping gown.

Emily Blunt, 40, cut a chic figure as she attended the British Vogue and Tiffany & Co afterparty at celeb hotspot Annabel's in London on Sunday

The Oppenheimer star flaunted her toned abs in a plunging white bralette which displayed her ample cleavage and was adorned with quirky feathers

She was a vision of beauty in a the glamorous beaded frock with cut outs along the waist that showed off her lithe figure.

The glamorous garment was adorned with gems and clung to her hourglass curvesm flaring out into a fishtail hem.

She completed the look with a diamond and ruby necklace paired with matching earrings.

Despite missing out on a gong, her movie Oppenheimer won Best Film as well as sweeping the board in the major categories during the swanky ceremony.

The epic biographical thriller led the wins with seven gongs, including Best Actor for Cillian Murphy, Best Supporting Actor for Robert Downey Jr and Best Director for Christopher Nolan. It had the most nominations with 13.

The biggest night in British film returned with actor David Tennant as host and an array of guest presenters on hand to deliver awards throughout the night.

Murphy, 47 - who plays the titular role in Nolan's atomic bomb saga - picked up the prize at the prestigious British awards ceremony.

He triumphed against Bradley Cooper for Maestro, Colman Domingo for Rustin, Paul Giamatti for The Holdovers, Barry Keoghan for Saltburn and Teo Yoo for Past Lives.

Emily, who had been nominated for Best Actress, took to award show's red carpet earlier in the evening in a jaw-dropping gown

She was a vision of beauty in a the glamorous beaded frock with cut outs along the waist that showed off her lithe figure

THE BAFTA WINNERS AT A GLANCE Best Film - Oppenheimer Best Director - Christopher Nolan, Oppenheimer Supporting Actor - Robert Downey Jr, Oppenheimer Leading Actor - Cillian Murphy, Oppenheimer Leading Actress - Emma Stone, Poor Things Supporting Actress - Da'vine Joy Randolph, The Holdovers Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Accepting the trophy he said: 'Oh boy, holy moly, thank you very, very much BAFTA.'

He paid tribute to 'the most dynamic, kindest producer-director partnership in Hollywood: Chris Nolan and Emma Thomas, thank you for seeing something in me that I probably didn't see in myself.'

The Irish actor said to Nolan: 'Thank for always pushing me and demanding excellence because that is what you deliver time and time again.'

Nolan also acknowledged his 'fellow nominees and my Oppenhomies', adding: 'I know it's a cliche to say, but I'm in awe of you.'

He said J Robert Oppenheimer was a 'colossally knotty character', adding: 'We have a space to debate and interrogate and investigate that complexity and it's a privilege to be a part of this community with you all

Oppenheimer won Best Film as well as sweeping the board in the major categories during the swanky ceremony (Cillian Murphy with Best Actor Oscar)

Oppenheimer swept up in the big name categories, but it was closely followed by the surreal black comedy Poor Things (Emma Stone pictured with Best Actress Award for Poor Things)

Downey Jr, 58, also collected a BAFTA for his role as Lewis Strauss in the Hollywood blockbuster, which has swept the board during the 2024 awards season.

He admitted he owes the award to Nolan, producer Emma Thomas and leading man Murphy, as well as 'British influence'.

Gesturing to Nolan, he said: 'Recently that dude suggested I attempt an understated approach as a last ditch effort to resurrect my dwindling credibility.'

Downey Jr's win set a new record for the longest gap between wins by any performer as it comes 31 years after his previous BAFTA, for the 1993 film Chaplin.