Gwyneth Paltrow proved she is going from strength to strength with her husband Brad Falchuk on Valentine's Day.

The 51-year-old Oscar winner - who recently pulled off a denim mini skirt look - took to her Instagram on Wednesday to share a very rare selfie with her handsome partner of nearly a decade.

The stunning star twinned with the American Horror Story creator, as both of them sported chic navy zip-up sweaters for the adorable snap.

Gwyneth captioned the post, 'My one and only valentine,' with a heart emoji.

The sweet social media share comes after the actress revealed how her second husband opened her heart to the possibility of falling in love again.

Gwyneth Paltrow proved she is going from strength to strength with her husband Brad Falchuk on Valentine's Day

Speaking at the Besties event in Sydney in October, Gwyneth told the audience she was 'petrified' of starting a new relationship after her 'uncoupling' from Chris Martin in 2016.

'Some of the boyfriends that I had chosen in my life were people that weren't fully capable of intimacy and that way you can be like, "Oh [they're the ones with the problem]. I'm ready to do this and they're not,"' she said.

'Which is just a clever way not to admit you're the one you know. And I'm still scared sometimes.'

Despite being half a decade into her marriage, Gwyn said these are issues she still struggles with.

'We've been married for five years and sometimes I'm like, "this is hard being so vulnerable". He demands total intimacy, and openness, so it's like a practice for me all the time' she said.

'Generally you are reenacting the relationship you had with the most complicated parent.'

She added: 'I've been very lucky with Brad because I have chemistry with him and he's my best friend. He cares so much about the quality of our relationship.

'Second marriages can be really special.'

The 51-year-old Oscar winner took to her Instagram on Wednesday to share a very rare selfie with her handsome partner of nearly a decade; pictured 2019

The sweet social media share comes after the actress revealed how her second husband opened her heart to the possibility of falling in love again

Gwyneth amicably co-parents her two kids Apple and Moses with her ex-husband Chris Martin, from whom she divorced in 2016 after 13 years of marriage

Having first met in 2014 on the set of Glee — where Paltrow portrayed Holly Holliday and Falchuk served as a co-creator of the series — the couple's initial professional connection soon blossomed into a romantic one.

Their emerging relationship unfolded several months following the separation of the Shakespeare in Love actress from her husband, Martin, marking the end of their 10-year marriage.

Simultaneously, Falchuk had recently concluded a nearly two-decade-long marriage with producer Suzanne Bulnik a year earlier.

Gwyneth shares two kids with ex-husband Chris Martin, Apple, 19, and Moses, 17, and is a step-mom to Brad's two children, Brody, 17, and Isabella, 19,

She still amicably co-parents her two kids with her Cold Play rocker ex-husband, from whom she divorced in 2016 after 13 years of marriage.