Nissan's Juke - Britain's eighth most popular new car last year - has received an extensive upgrade, as the Japanese brand looks to steal a march on Ford's best-selling Puma.

The second-generation Juke, which has been on sale since 2019, has been updated with a new interior and bigger touchscreen, more technology and driver assistance systems - and what Nissan says is a big step-up in quality.

But this comes at a price, as the move upmarket means customers will need to pay around £900 more than before for the 'Marmite' crossover car.

Juke makeover: This is the facelifted version of the Nissan crossover, which was Britain's eighth best-selling new car last year

Since the original Juke hit the market in 2010, it's been a success story, especially for Britain.

Designed at the company's centre in the heart of London, developed at its research department in Cranfield, Bedfordshire, and built at Nissan Sunderland, the Juke's DNA is very much in the heartland of England.

Some 1.3 million examples have been sold globally in the last decade and a half, with Juke accounting for three in ten Nissan sales in the UK.

And its popularity appears to be on the rise.

While the first-generation Juke's looks were polarising - often why its referred to as a Marmite car - the one on sale today is more grown up and winning over a greater number of buyers.

In fact, it achieved 31,745 registrations in 2023, which is more than the Volkswagen Golf and Ford Focus, securing it a position in the list of top 10 best-selling cars last year.

In terms of small crossovers, only the Ford Puma sold in greater numbers in the previous 12 months.

But in an effort to steal some sales from the Puma - which was Britain's most popular new car last year - Nissan has given the Juke a thorough refresh for 2024.

Designed in London, developed in Bedfordshire, and built in Sunderland, the Juke's DNA is very much in the heartland of England

With 31,745 registrations in 2023, Juke cemented its position in the list of top 10 best-selling cars. In terms of small crossovers, only the Ford Puma sold in greater numbers

The biggest changes come inside, starting with a wider touchscreen display.

Previously eight inches from corner to corner, the new screen is 12.3 inches and is higher in resolution.

It's also fully customisable, allowing owners to choose which commonly-used options to feature on a drop down menu at all times.

The display layout is said to be more intuitive than before and the display is angled by eight degrees towards the driver for easy access.

Wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto will come as standard and the voice recognition software has been upgraded with improved ‘natural language understanding’ capability.

Nissan says you can also play video content on the larger touchscreen, via USB connected devices, though this is only visible when the car is stationary.

A larger infotainment screen takes centre stage in an all-new cabin, which is said to be inspired by a 'jet fighter cockpit', with all the control switches and function buttons within easy reach

Previously eight inches from corner to corner, the new screen is 12.3 inches and is higher in resolution

The new display is fully customisable, allowing owners to choose which commonly-used options to feature on a drop down menu at all times

There's a higher pixel reversing camera, too, as well as upgrades to smartphone connectivity and an improvement to cyber security to keep hackers at bay.

Also new in the glovebox is the connection for an 'alcolock' breathalyser, which - if mandated under UK regulations - could mean drivers with previous drink driving offences would need to provide a breath sample before the car lets them start the ignition.

The larger screen takes centre stage in an all-new cabin, which is said to be inspired by a 'jet fighter cockpit', with all the control switches and function buttons within easy reach.

There's a higher-grade TFT driver cluster - 12.3 inches for mid-spec and above models - with adjustable view settings and new materials are used on the soft-touch areas of the interior and seats, too.

In terms of technology, an Intelligent Driver Alertness system now comes as standard to monitor if the person behind the wheel is drowsy or falling ill.

Lane Keep Assist is also a permanent fixture on higher trim levels. This can identify if the car is drifting towards the white lines dividing motorway lanes and can alert the driver and correct the steering to ensure the car doesn't cross into another vehicle's path.

In terms of technology, an Intelligent Driver Alertness system now comes as standard to monitor if the person behind the wheel is drowsy or falling ill

Under the bonnet, the engine line-up remains unchanged: this means customers can choose between a 1.0-litre three-cylinder petrol that produces 112bhp or a 1.6-litre four-pot mild-hybrid with an output of 141bhp

Bosses have confirmed there will be a 'humble price increase' coming, with the facelifted Juke around £900 more expensive than it was before.

On the outside, new wheel designs are joined by a few new colour options, including Pearl White and Pearl Black, as well as the return of yellow paint.

Having been available for the first-generation car, Nissan had previously dropped yellow from the choice of tones for the 2019 model. Still, bosses say this colour is expected to account for just 5 per cent of all Jukes sold.

Under the bonnet, the engine line-up remains unchanged: this means customers can choose between a 1.0-litre three-cylinder petrol that produces 112bhp or a 1.6-litre four-pot mild-hybrid with an output of 141bhp.

Speaking at its unveiling in London this week, Andrew Humberstone, managing director of Nissan GB, said the new improvements should ensure it 'remains popular with UK customers in a fiercely competitive sector'.

However, Nissan also confirmed that there is a 'humble price increase' coming, with the facelifted Juke around £900 more expensive than it was before.

But the deletion of the entry 'Visia' trim level - which only accounted for 1 per cent of all sales since 2019 - means the start price is going to be £2,500 higher.

While 1.0-litre Visia models currently starts at £20,985, the entry Acenta Premium upgrade ring in from £23,485.

The top of the range N-Sport trim begins from £28,385.

Production of the updated Juke will start in Sunderland in March, with first deliveries arriving in the summer.