Florence Pugh was out to celebrate with her Oppenheimer co-stars as she headed to a glitzy after party following the 2024 British Academy Film Awards on Sunday.

The actress, 28, changed out of her black gown into a daring white lace dress as she arrived for the party at London's Nomad Hotel after the Christopher Nolan biopic swept the board with seven wins.

Florence showed off impressive pins in a daring white gown with a dramatic lace trim, teamed with a matching feathered stole.

The star's plunging dress showcased every inch of her incredible figure as she joined her co-star Robert Downey Jr at the party.

After his Supporting Actor win, Robert was also in high spirits as he made his way into the party.

Florence Pugh was out to celebrate with her Oppenheimer co-stars as she headed to a glitzy after party following the 2024 British Academy Film Awards on Sunday

The actress changed out of her black gown into a daring white lace dress as she arrived for the party at London's Nomad Hotel

Despite sporting a smart black shirt under his grey suit for the ceremony, Robert swapped it for a Sex Pistols T-shirt as he headed to the bash.

Oppenheimer proved to be the big winner on the night, earning seven gongs including Best Film, Supporting Actor for Robert Downey Jr and Director for Christopher Nolan.

Prince William attended the ceremony in London solo as his wife Kate Middleton continues her recovery from last month's abdominal surgery.

Oppenheimer swept up in the big name categories, but it was closely followed by the surreal black comedy Poor Things.

It marked five awards for the film, as Emma Stone collected the Best Actress gong for her turn as Bella Baxter.

Cillian, 47, - who plays the titular role in Christopher Nolan's atomic bomb saga - picked up the Leading Actor prize at the prestigious British awards ceremony.

He triumphed against Bradley Cooper for Maestro, Colman Domingo for Rustin, Paul Giamatti for The Holdovers, Barry Keoghan for Saltburn and Teo Yoo for Past Lives.

Robert, 58, collected a BAFTA for his role as Lewis Strauss in Hollywood blockbuster Oppenheimer, which has swept the board during awards season.

Earlier in the evening, Florence stunned as she arrived for the ceremony in an eye-catching black gown with silver corseted detailing

After his Supporting Actor win, Robert was also in high spirits as he made his way into the party, having swapped his black shirt for a Sex Pistols graphic T-shirt

THE BAFTA WINNERS AT A GLANCE Best Film - Oppenheimer Best Director - Christopher Nolan, Oppenheimer Supporting Actor - Robert Downey Jr, Oppenheimer Leading Actor - Cillian Murphy, Oppenheimer Leading Actress - Emma Stone, Poor Things Supporting Actress - Da'vine Joy Randolph, The Holdovers Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Robert's win set a new record for the longest gap between wins by any performer.

His award, for the film Oppenheimer, comes 31 years after his previous BAFTA, for the 1993 film Chaplin.

Nolan won the Best Director BAFTA for Oppenheimer, his epic tale of how the nuclear bomb was created.

Nolan has previously lost out despite numerous commercial successes such as Inception and The Dark Knight, the UK-born filmmaker won out against Jonathan Glazer [The Zone of Interest], Justine Triet [Anatomy of a Fall], Alexander Payne [The Holdovers], Bradley Cooper [Maestro] and Andrew Haigh [All of Us Strangers].

Oppenheimer swept up in the big name categories, but it was closely followed by the surreal black comedy Poor Things.

It marked five awards for the film, as Emma Stone collected the gong for her turn as Bella Baxter.

Meanwhile, Da'Vine Joy Randolph crowned victorious in the Best Supporting Actress category for her part in The Holdovers as she continues her march to Oscars glory.

Next up, Director Jonathan Glazer and producer James Wilson's The Zone Of Interest won the BAFTA for Outstanding British Film.

The night kicked off with French legal drama Anatomy Of A Fall winning the Original Screenplay award after premiering in Cannes back in May.

Next up, Poor Things has won the BAFTA for special visual effects.

Following this, drama film Earth Mama was honoured with the BAFTA outstanding debut by a British writer, director or producer, presented by David Beckham.

The Zone Of Interest won the BAFTA for a film not in the English language.

The BAFTA for Casting was awarded to Susan Shopmaker for private school-set The Holdovers, while the editing award has gone to Jennifer Lame for Second World War biopic Oppenheimer.

Comedy drama American Fiction won Best Adapted Screenplay.

The Documentary BAFTA went to 20 Days In Mariupol, which highlights the work of Associated Press journalists in the besieged Ukrainian city during the Russian invasion.

Composer Ludwig Goransson won the BAFTA for Original Score for Oppenheimer while Johnnie Burn and Tarn Willers scooped the honour for best sound for Holocaust film The Zone Of Interest.

The BAFTA for Production Design went to Shona Heath, James Price and Zsuzsa Mihalek for surreal comedy Poor Things, about a woman who is reanimated and begins a new life.

It was previously announced the BAFTA for Outstanding British Contribution to Cinema would go to programmer and archivist June Givanni, founder of the Pan African Film Archive, who collected the prize during the ceremony from Bridgerton star Adjoa Andoh.

Northern Ireland actor James Martin, from Oscar-winning film An Irish Goodbye, presented the British short film Bafta to Yasmin Afifi and Elizabeth Rufai for Jellyfish And Lobster, a tale about care home residents.

Poor Things won two more BAFTAs for best costume design, and make-up and hair.

Samantha Morton collected the BAFTA Fellowship from producer David Heyman, who she worked with on Fantastic Beasts And Where To Find Them.

The BAFTA Rising Star award was won by Mia Mckenna-Bruce following a public vote.

The star of coming-of-age film How To Have Sex appeared emotional on stage as she thanked her family and her 'beautiful baby boy'.