One of the last undeveloped properties on the Sandbanks waterfront is up for sale for £5.5million - or £8.7million for the luxury mansion earmarked for the site.

The four bedroom detached house was built in the 1950s when the Poole Harbour peninsula was being transformed from a sandy spit into a holiday destination.

Over the past 25 years Sandbanks has become one of the most desirable addresses on the planet.

During that time most of the original houses have been demolished to make way for multi-million pound contemporary homes.

The Breakers is one of just a handful of original beach-front homes on the peninsula still standing.

One of the last undeveloped properties on the affluent Sandbanks waterfront is on sale for £5.5million (pictured). The four bedroom detached house was built in the 1950s when the Poole Harbour peninsula was being transformed from a sandy spit into a holiday destination

Or if money is no object then prospective buyers could also pay £8.75m to secure the magnificent Art Deco-style villa (pictured) that is proposed for the same plot

Over the past quarter of a century Sandbanks has become one of the most desirable addresses on the planet

The traditional-looking house, which has stunning sea views, has now been put up for sale for £5.5m.

If money is no object then prospective buyers could also pay £8.75m to secure the magnificent Art Deco-style villa that is proposed for the same plot.

Plans have been lodged for a three-storey, five bed 'dream home' to replace the current house.

The purchaser will buy the mansion off-plan and will have to wait at least a year while it is built for them.

The proposed development will have five en suite bedrooms, a huge open plan living space, a dining room, study, an indoor swimming pool with sauna and steam room, a roof terrace and four balconies.

Robert Dunford, of Sandbanks estate agents Tailor Made, said: 'This beachfront home is considered exceptionally rare, given there are only seven original homes left that have not been redeveloped.

'The original home sits right on the beach. There are so few plots left on Sandbanks where you can literally step out directly onto the beach.

'It is also set back from the road in front and so has a good degree of privacy.

Plans have been lodged for a three-storey, five bed 'dream home' to replace the current house, The Breakers (pictured), which is one of just a handful of original beach-front homes on the peninsula still standing

Robert Dunford, of Sandbanks estate agents Tailor Made, said: 'It is also set back from the road in front and so has a good degree of privacy'

The proposed development will have five en suite bedrooms, a huge open plan living space, a dining room, study, an indoor swimming pool with sauna and steam room, a roof terrace and four balconies

The purchaser will buy the mansion off-plan and will have to wait at least a year while it is built for them

Mr Dunford added: 'This beachfront home is considered exceptionally rare, given there are only seven original homes left that have not been redeveloped'

'It has undergone recent refurbishment by the current owner and is ready to be used as a lock up and leave property, ready for those weekend and holiday visits,' he continued.

'Alternatively, the owner has submitted a planning application for a modern contemporary home to be built in its place,' he said.

He added: 'It will have a wealth of rooms, capitalising on its location, with views out across the beach and Poole Bay'

'It has undergone recent refurbishment by the current owner and is ready to be used as a lock up and leave property, ready for those weekend and holiday visits.

'Alternatively, the owner has submitted a planning application for a modern contemporary home to be built in its place.

'It will have a wealth of rooms, capitalising on its location, with views out across the beach and Poole Bay.

'The plans allow the next generation of buyers to have their dream home built, with full control over the interior design and fittings.

'So far two relocation buyers have expressed an interest in the property, subject to selling their businesses with one UK based and one from international.'

Last month Rightmove revealed the average price of a property on Sandbanks had increased by 20 per cent in a year, up from £1.5m for 2022 to £1.9m for 2023.

Sandbanks was also revealed to be the fourth most expensive place in the world for real estate, with a median sold price of £1.25m in 2023. Only Monaco's Monte Carlo at £4.24m, Basel in Switzerland at £1.8m and Palm Beach in Florida at £1.33m were higher.

Last month Rightmove revealed the average price of a property on Sandbanks (pictured) had increased by 20 per cent in a year, up from £1.5m for 2022 to £1.9m for 2023

Sandbanks (pictured) is also the fourth most expensive place in the world to purchase real estate, with a median sold price of £1.25m in 2023. Only Monaco's Monte Carlo at £4.24m, Basel in Switzerland at £1.8m and Palm Beach in Florida at £1.33m were higher

Local estate agents think the rise in prices for the millionaires' playground is due to the demand for waterfront homes from wealthy people aiming to leave London after the pandemic

Mr Dunford added: 'The original home sits right on the beach. There are so few plots left on Sandbanks where you can literally step out directly onto the beach' (pictured: The Breakers with arrow above)

Sandbanks has been one of the most desirable places to live in the UK for more than two decaded and has attracted celebrities like Harry and Sandra Redknapp, TV football pundit Graeme Souness and interior designer Celia Sawyer

Local estate agents believe the rise in prices for the millionaires' playground is due to the demand for waterfront homes from wealthy people looking to leave London after the pandemic.

With more people working from home rather than commuting to the capital, homeowners are flocking to the seaside to live.

Sandbanks has been one of the most desirable places to live in the UK for more than 20 years and has attracted celebrities like Harry and Sandra Redknapp, TV football pundit Graeme Souness and interior designer Celia Sawyer.