Harry Potter author JK Rowling has donated £70,000 to a feminist campaign to help their Supreme Court appeal against the definition of a woman.

She pledged the money to For Women Scotland, which contested whether transgender women with a gender recognition certificate (GRC) had the same legal rights as women under the Equality Act 2010 - which counts sex as a protected characteristic.

The group won an earlier case where it was found the SNP's position that anyone who identifies as a woman is one in terms of gender quotas for public boards was unlawful.

However it lost a case challenging guidance stating that a biological man counted as a woman if they have a gender recognition certificate.

The group is now appealing the decision in a bid to obtain a 'historic' Supreme Court ruling stating that men can't become women.

And JK Rowling, who is outspoken on trans issues, donated the £70,000 within hours of Scottish courts granting permission for the appeal to go ahead.

Controversial author JK Rowling has donated £70,000 to a feminist campaign to help their Supreme Court appeal against the definition of a woman

JK Rowling, who is outspoken on trans issues, donated the £70,000 within hours of Scottish courts granting permission for the appeal to go ahead

Supporters of For Women Scotland and the Scottish Feminist Network pictured protesting

In a message with her donation, she wrote: 'You know how proud I am to know you. Thank you for all your hard work and perseverance. This is truly a historic case.'

The fundraiser, which has raised £229,365 so far, reads: 'We had really hoped the situation could have been resolved with the judicial review but, unfortunately, it was not to be.

'The protected characteristic of “woman” in the Equality Act still includes some males and although the Gender Recognition Reform Bill (which allowed anyone to obtain a GRC) has been paused for now it may yet come back in some form.'

For Women Scotland had appealed to the Court of Session - Scotland's supreme civil court - after losing a Judicial Review over legislation introduced in 2018 to address gender imbalance on public boards.

Scottish ministers had insisted transgender women with a GRC would be included under the new law, a stance opposed by the campaigners.

Responding to the ruling which the group lost over the definition of a 'woman', For Women Scotland said: 'Naturally, we are hugely disappointed in [the] judgement, which has ruled that women’s protections under law may – in some cases – include men who have obtained a GRC.

Gender recognition reform has become a fierce political debate in Scotland. (Pictured: A For Women Scotland protester in December)

After the Scottish Parliament voted through Nicola Sturgeon's Gender Recognition Reform Bill in December, the UK government intervened

'We are obviously still analysing the decision and will be speaking to our legal team in due course to consider the possibility of a further challenge.'

LGBTQ+ charity Stonewall praised the court's decision. A spokesman said: 'This ruling is welcome and it serves to affirm what the long standing law on this has always said.

‘It also demonstrates that the way trans people are accepted and counted as who they are is working - despite a concerted campaign by anti-trans campaigners to remove the existing rights trans people have had for decades.’

The Equality Act does allow for some 'proportionate means' for exclusion of transgender people with a GRC.

Upon this point, legal expert Dr Michael Foran wrote for Unherd: 'It is more likely to be lawful to exclude a [biological] male with a GRC stating they are a woman from a rape crisis centre or a changing room than it will be to exclude them from a women-only hair salon or leadership training course.'

READ MORE - Scottish feminist campaigners lose appeal over the definition of 'woman' after ruling that trans women with a female gender recognition certificate are legally defined as women

Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/news/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Other interested parties also made submissions in the case, among them Baroness Falkner, chairman of the Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) and campaign group Sex Matters.

Baroness Falkner questioned whether the law would impact upon lesbians' and gay men's groups, writing: 'If sex means legal sex, then sexual orientation changes on acquiring a GRC: some trans women with a GRC become legally lesbian, and some trans men with a GRC become gay men.'

But the ruling responded it found this submission 'hard to follow' adding: 'There is no such thing as being “legally lesbian” and we have not identified a problem which would require that sex be referable to biology alone.'

Reflecting on this part of the judgement, Sex Matters stated: 'The judgement's assertion that there is no such thing as being "legally lesbian" does nothing to resolve the issue of whether lesbians can legally form associations which exclude men who identify as lesbians and who have a GRC which deems them to be female.'

Gender recognition reform has become a fierce political debate in Scotland.

The SNP and Green Party have both campaigned to make it easier for people to change their legal gender, while opponents claim there is a clash between advancing trans rights against women's and LGB rights.

After the Scottish Parliament voted through Nicola Sturgeon's Gender Recognition Reform Bill in December last year, the UK government vetoed it using Section 35 powers - arguing the proposed changes had implications for the UK-wide Equality Act.