Two people who were shot dead in a dorm room at the University of Colorado - Colorado Springs have been identified as 24-year-old Sam Knopp and 26-year-old Celie Rain Montgomery.

Knopp and Montgomery were found with gunshot wounds to the head when police responded the shooting around 6am on Friday. It's unclear what their relation was.

The 24-year-old victim, who was a senior at college, was remembered as a gifted musician who played the guitar. Montgomery did not attend the university.

'At this point in our investigation, this incident does not appear to be a murder-suicide and both deaths are being investigated as homicides,' Colorado Springs Police said.

Sam Knopp, 24, was names as one of the victims of a shooting in a dorm at the University of Colorado, Colorado Springs on Friday

Sam Knopp with is pictured with his mother, Amy, in photo posted online

The coroner's office will determine how they died, but each person was shot at least once in what appeared to be an 'isolated incident,' police spokesperson Ira Cronin said at a briefing.

Sam was a senior studying music at the university and said to be a beloved member of the Visual and Performing Arts department. He was an accomplished guitar player and an extremely talented musician.

Celie, who was a single mother-of-two young children, worked as a freelance copywriter specializing in health and wellness.

A lockdown across campus lasted for about 90 minutes and later was isolated to Crestone House, a student apartment complex on campus, school spokesperson Chris Valentine said.

A police officer stands outside a dorm in the Village at Alpine Valley housing on Friday as police investigate a shooting on the University of Colorado Colorado Springs campus

Knopp, was a talented senior studying music at the university

Shocked students look outside their dorm window in the Village at Alpine Valley housing

When police officers got to the room, they found Knopp and Montgomery both dead, having been shot in the head.

Following the lockdown, the campus about 70 miles south of Denver remained closed for the day.

Knopp's mother, Amy, shared her concerns online just as the shooting was taking place. She wrote online: 'There were reports of an active shooter on campus at UCCS where our son, Sam, is a senior. At least one person is dead.

'I haven't heard from Sam. He lives in Alpine Village, where residents were told to shelter in place. The campus is in lockdown and is now closed today.

'PLEASE EXCUSE MY LANGUAGE BUT IT'S THE GODDAMNED GUNS! This hits way too close to home and it makes me want to vomit. All the 'thoughts and prayers' in the world mean nothing without action to back them up.'

Sam Knopp is seen alongside his twin sister Ellie

Sam, left, and his sister Ellie are pictured together in a family photo

Once it became clear her son was one of the victims, there followed messages of condolence.

'I'm so sorry for your loss and praying so hard for you and your family,' wrote Brittany Craig.

'Amy my thoughts and prayers are with you and your family. My heart is broken my condolences,' said Diane Sigl.

'I’m so sorry Amy, I am angry and heartbroken we lost Sam,' added Elsa Ge.

So far, no suspects have been apprehended nor named in the active investigation.

'Given this case's active and fluid nature, additional information about those leads and any potential suspect details will not be released at this time,' a press release from the police department read.

The police did note that the shooting was an isolated incident between people who knew one another and was not simply a random attack against the school or other students at the university.

'While acknowledging the difficulty of the situation and the withholding of information in the initial stages of the investigation, we owe it to the victims and their families to deliver accountability and justice for this horrific act,' police said.

'These are the third and fourth homicides in the City of Colorado Springs this year. At this time last year, there were two homicides.'

The campus was also closed over the weekend but walk-in counseling was offered at the wellness center on both days, the university said.

The university has said that classes will be cancelled on Monday but walk-in counseling will also be offered together with spaces on campus being open to offering food and support.

A healing walk to honor the victims is scheduled for Monday on the UCCS campus at 2pm.