PSG president Nasser Al-Khelaifi has offered a blunt response to questions over Kylian Mbappe's future, after reports claimed he'd agreed to join Real Madrid.

With his contract set to expire with the Ligue 1 giants this summer, Le Parisien report that Mbappe 'has decided to leave Ligue 1 at the end of the season and join the biggest club in the world [Real Madrid], which has always been waiting for him.'

The outlet states that 'optimism reigns in Madrid' and that 'negotiations are being carried out for the biggest locker room contract' for the 25-year-old winger.

Now, PSG chief Al-Khelaifi has been asked for his take on the situation and only offered reporters a blunt, nine-word response.

On the sidelines of the UEFA Congress in Paris, according to GOAL, Al-KhelaIfi said: 'When we have both decided, we will tell you.'

Reports in Spain claim Kylian Mbappe has chosen to join Real Madrid from Paris Saint-Germain in the summer

In response, PSG president Nasser Al-Khelaifi offered a blunt response to questions over Mbappe's future

Your browser does not support iframes.

Previously, president Al-Khelaifi had openly stated that he wanted the winger to stay.

He told RMC: ‘Look, I’m not hiding anything.

‘For sure I want Mbappe to stay. For me he is the best in the world and for me the best club for Kylian is Paris.'

Reports that Mbappe has decided to join Madrid come after a drawn-out saga between the World Cup winner and the Spanish club, which has seen the PSG star linked with a move away from the Parc des Princes for nearly four years.

Mbappe does have an option to extend his contract at PSG by another year, a deal that would see him earn £60million in the next 12 months.

That would also prevent PSG from losing him on a free transfer after the club had initially signed him for £153m in 2018 from Monaco.

Mbappe does have an option to extend his current contract at PSG by another year

However, a move to Carlo Ancelotti's Real Madrid has looked on the cards for many years

After much back-and-forth between Mbappe and Real Madrid, speculation over a potential move to Madrid has intensified in recent weeks.

He has been free to negotiate with other clubs since January 1 after entering the final six months of his PSG contract.

Liverpool have also been linked with a move for the forward, with Le Parisien claiming that 'Mbappe would be open to joining the Merseyside club.'