An airport worker has revealed the hilarious message she left for a passenger after they accidentally left their iPad behind on a flight.

Christianna Peterson, from California, works at Hollywood Burbank Airport and provides ground support.

The 24-year-old frequently shares her day-to-day life on her TikTok, where she boasts over 14,600 followers.

Most recently, she sent viewers into a fit of giggles as she branded the passenger 'crazy' for leaving their device behind.

Christianna Peterson, from California, works at Hollywood Burbank Airport and provides ground support

Most recently, she sent viewers into a fit of giggles as she branded the passenger 'crazy' for leaving their device behind

In a now viral video, which has so far amassed over 8.3 million views, Christianna showed herself finding the iPad and the surprise recording she left on it.

She explained: 'I found this iPad on the plane, right? I'm about to show you the video. I'm gonna show you the video.

'If you left your iPad on the plane, you would wanna see this video too.'

Pointing the camera at the screen, Christianna said in the pre-recorded message: 'I had to leave this video because you're crazy for leaving this on the plane.

'You're lucky. Hope you don't show this to one of my employers.

'But you're lucky my black a** found this and I'm holding it hostage until the gate agent come around so I can give it to him.'

She explained that the device was left on a seat in 'first class,' adding: 'He was really in a rush.'

At the end of the clip, she concluded: 'You're lucky because somebody would have taken it and never been honest about it. And this is a nice iPad. I'm sorry, I'm all up in your stuff.'

In a viral video, which has so far amassed over 8.3 million views, Christianna showed herself finding the iPad and the surprise she left on it

People flooded the comments section of the light-hearted clip as they struggled to contain their giggles

Speaking to Newsweek, Christianna said before taking the video she 'went to look for the gate agents but either one wasn't anywhere to be found, so I'm like "I can't just leave it. How about I take a video maybe [the iPad owner] will see it."'

People flooded the comments section of the light-hearted clip as they struggled to contain their giggles.

One person said: 'The end has me cackling, the poses.'

Another user added: 'Real.'

'This is actually amazing lmfao,' commented one user.

'I would never delete that video off that iPad if it was mine,' wrote someone else.