It’s the big talking point of the whole cricketing world so let’s get it out there straightaway. What is happening with the Australian team is truly extraordinary.

What has happened is not good for the integrity of the game and we all have responsibility as international cricketers to ensure the game is played in the right spirit.

You go out onto the playing field every time to win and you will do all you can to do that, but not at all costs and especially not to cheat.

Steve Smith has been banned by Cricket Australia for his part in the ball-tampering scandal

The off-field stuff which has emerged from this has tainted what could have been a great series

South Africa against Australia could have been one of the great modern clashes with two fantastic bowling attacks pitted against each other and cricket-wise it has been good. But it’s been tainted by the off-field stuff.

I’d like to say more but I don’t want to go down that route. I’m looking at things from a distance and I don’t know the full story. Sometimes what you read – as I know about my supposed head-butt in Australia – is very different to what actually happened.

But what I will say is our one-day and Test series against New Zealand have been played in a tough manner but also in the right way.

Nothing has spilt over. We will have a beer and a yarn together at the end of the second Test whatever happens. If someone outplays you, like New Zealand outplayed us in Auckland, you recognise that. You don’t let it affect relationships between the teams.

This Test and one-day series against New Zealand has been played in the right spirits

No excuses

Auckland was a huge disappointment. It wasn’t the way we wanted to start again in Test cricket after the Ashes. Can you put your finger on it? No. To be bowled out for 58 on the first day was unacceptable.

You really do have to give credit to Trent Boult. He was magnificent. Fair play to him. But the way we batted in the second innings was the way to go about it and we need to be batting for nearly 130 overs like that first time round.

There was certainly a snowball effect. We started edging everything. They held their catches, in the case of Kane Williamson to dismiss Stuart Broad spectacularly so, and within the blink of an eye it was all over.

The way then that our bowlers came out and toiled was impressive and the character we showed in the last innings was a huge improvement but it was too little too late. We have to do that at the start of a match to set us up and that’s what we will be trying to do in Christchurch.

To be bowled out for 58 in that first innings of the first Test was simply inexcusable

You really do have to give credit to Trent Boult – he was magnificent, fair play to him

They were holding all of their catches, too – including this stunner from Kane Williamson

A word, too, for Neil Wagner, who bowled a 15-over spell either side of dinner on the final day that was decisive for New Zealand. He showed tremendous heart but we have to have the game plans to nullify spells like that.

If your game is to take everything on then you have to stick with that and if it’s your game to get out of the way of the short ball then that’s what you do.

Yes, there are periods when you tinker but it’s an individual thing and we have to execute what we want to do much better in the final Test. As for my second innings dismissal. Well, I couldn’t not try to hit that, could I?

If anyone says I played the wrong shot I will defend myself to the hilt because it was a drag down from Todd Astle that deserved to go into orbit.

But there are no excuses. I don’t think lack of preparation had anything to do with it. Guys know what they need going into a series.

I felt in great nick going into the match after two centuries in the last two one-day games and I don’t think the colour of the ball should make any difference to my form.

I have no regrets about my second-innings dismissal, that ball should have gone into orbit

Pink problems

But it will be nice to see a red ball again in Christchurch. We haven’t had one of them in a proper match for a while now! I’m not a huge fan of the day-night Test concept from what I’ve seen so far.

You can’t shine the pink ball and there were times when it had to be changed because of what was effectively plastic being chipped off it. They went out of shape consistently and you couldn’t see the shiny or the rough side.

And I found it particularly hard to see the pink ball when the sun was shining on the sightscreen. There was a real glare. So I think the ball has to be tried and tested a lot more before you implement it at the highest level because this is Test cricket.

It will be nice to move back from the pink ball to the red in the second Test in Christchurch

I wasn’t out there long enough to tell you what it was like batting under lights but the hours do mess with your whole day. I can’t tell you either if the spectators like it and I couldn’t say whether viewing figures have gone up.

We will have to see but I certainly don’t think it’s something for Tests in England because we are fortunate to get good crowds and it’s light for much of the summer until 9pm anyway.

I know people in the game have to make these decisions but potentially they haven’t played with a pink ball themselves!

Ginger power

There was one pleasant distraction during the Test and that was a visit from Ed Sheeran, who was in Auckland to play three concerts.

What a lovely, normal bloke he is. I was one of the players who was lucky enough to meet him, just two gingers having a chat! I am a fan of Ed. I think he’s a fantastic musician and artist and he’s an inspiration because of the way he started out.

I love meeting successful people from different walks of life and finding out more about them and Ed is probably the biggest pop star in the world at the moment. I still haven’t seen him in concert and I want to put that right one day.

Mark Wood gave him a bat and we all gave him a signed shirt and it really was great to meet him.

Ed Sheeran visited the team after he played three concerts in Auckland, a nice surprise!

Putting it right

We won’t shy away from the fact that we weren’t good enough at Eden Park. We have one game to do much better now.

It comes down to this and we certainly don’t want to go a whole winter without winning a Test. It’s a one-game series for us now and we have to get back to winning ways before a huge English summer.

It’s a big game for individuals and it’s a big game for the team. It’s been a long winter and to finish it off on another low note would be very disappointing.

It’s a one-game series for us now and we must get back to winning ways before a huge summer

It is very hard to win in India and in Australia and while New Zealand are a very good side we wanted to come here and win this series to put our away form right.

We can’t do that now and that’s why a two-Test series is frustrating but what we can do is level the series.

We have had conversations among each other and asked questions of ourselves and now we will come together again and get ready for Hagley Park on Friday.

We have one game to put it right.