A TikToker aboard a nine-month cruise has detailed the wild conversation he had with a fellow passenger who claimed there were secret crew sex parties and swingers' orgies taking place onboard.

Marc Sebastian, who has garnered more than 1.7 million followers on the video-sharing platform, has divulged his final insight about Royal Caribbean's now infamous Ultimate World Cruise.

The content creator first joined the excursion on January 5 after becoming fascinated by the rumors that the Serenade of the Seas vessel was home to rampant swingers.

And, having spent 18 nights on board, it seems that there could have been some truth to the speculation.

Marc Sebastian, who has garnered more than 1.7 million followers on TikTok, has divulged his final insight from Royal Caribbean's now infamous Ultimate World Cruise

He has now detailed the wild conversation he had with a fellow passenger who claimed there were secret crew sex parties and swingers' orgies taking place onboard

In his latest clip, which has already been viewed more than 325,000 times, Marc spoke directly to camera to give his final review.

He began by stating that he 'just barely survived' before showcasing an array of his favorite photos and activities.

The social media star then moved on to lamenting the worst parts of the cruise - including the cost arrangements which see solo passengers getting charged for two packages.

But it was his final point that really caught the attention of his followers.

Marc explained: 'You're going to f**king love this. As I was filming a completely different video, this man came by and introduced himself to me. He then dropped this piece of information on me just voluntarily.'

The TikTok personality then shared an audio recording of the exchange after distorting his fellow passenger's voice.

It began: 'Mr Sebastian, how are you? I've heard so much about you... Talk to the workers because sometimes you can get friendly with them.

'They'll tell you some of the greatest stuff that goes on. They've got swinging parties, they've got [LGBTQ] exclusive parties. I mean amazing stuff.

The content creator first joined the excursion on January 5 after becoming fascinated by the rumors that the Serenade of the Seas vessel was home to rampant swingers

Marc first posted a video to TikTok at the end of last year after the Serenade of the Seas vessel had set sail, begging for cameras to board the ship so all the cruise drama tea can be spilled - and his wish has since been granted

Marc asked if he had attended himself, before the unnamed man continued: 'I'm married so I have to behave. But if I wasn't married you know damn well I would be going.'

The audio clip came to an end but Marc concluded his video with some light-hearted closing thoughts.

He joked: 'How come I wasn't invited? I would have liked an invite even if I couldn't go because it's like staff only.

'I just feel like I'm being left out of a lot of things.'

Marc first posted a video to TikTok at the end of last year after the Serenade of the Seas vessel had set sail, begging for cameras to board the ship so all the cruise drama tea can be spilled - and his wish was granted.

'Put cameras on that god damn cruise,' he demanded in the December 12 clip. 'Put cameras on that ship right now.'

'There's going to be mutiny, there's going to be blood, someone is going overboard, I want to watch,' he pointed out after a series of wild rumors began circulating online. 'Bravo, where are you? I need eyes.'

His wish was soon granted with publishing company Atria Books, a division of Simon & Schuster, reaching out and offering to send him on a leg of the cruise for 18 days to keep up to date with the drama.

Pineapple-loving passenger Adita Larson cheekily hit back at claims she was displaying her fruity decorations as an indication that she and husband Lee were swingers

Adita had been inundated with comments following a tour of the room - which would serve as the couple's home for the duration of the trip

After departing on January 6, Marc became TikTok's eyes and ears at sea - and soon managed to meet some of the internet's favorites on board including pineapple-loving passenger Adita Larson.

She cheekily hit back at claims she was displaying her fruity decorations as an indication that she and husband Lee were swingers.

Adita had been inundated with comments following a tour of the room - which would serve as the couple's home for the duration of the trip.

The front door was adorned with a whole host of signs and embellishments - but it was the pineapple cut-out that really caught the eye.

Pineapples, usually those placed upside down, are used by swingers to identify each other in public - and this seemingly innocuous detail did not pass viewers by.

Elsewhere, Marc also revealed the one word passengers should never say on board as well as explaining why he was berated for swearing on board.