Dua Lipa and her new boyfriend Callum Turner looked besotted with each other as they led the stars leaving the British Vogue And Tiffany & Co. BAFTAs afterparty at Annabel's on Sunday.

The singer, 28, and the actor, 34, held hands as they walked towards their waiting car after partying the evening away at the star-studded bash.

Dua looked stunning in a sheer black lace dress that boasted a feather trim and revealed her incredible curves.

The Levitating hitmaker added a statement gold choker and diamond earrings, while toting a black clutch bag.

While Callum cut a typically dapped figure in a smart black suit and tie as he shared a look of love with his pop star girlfriend.

Dua Lipa and her new boyfriend Callum Turner looked besotted with each other as they led the stars leaving the British Vogue And Tiffany & Co. BAFTAs afterparty at Annabel's on Sunday

The singer, 28, and the actor, 34, held hands as they walked towards their waiting car after partying the evening away at the star-studded bash

Dua looked stunning in a sheer black lace dress that boasted a feather trim and revealed her incredible curves

Callum and Dua only confirmed their romance last month, during a very public display of affection in Hollywood.

The pair couldn't keep their hands off each other following a romantic dinner date only a few weeks after first being romantically linked.

The power couple seem to be going from strength to strength, with Dua being seen meeting Callum's mother Rosemary on Tuesday, on Callum's birthday.

Anya Taylor-Joy was also seen making her way home from the glitzy party, still looking impeccable in a gold Fendi bralette.

The actress, 27, teamed the top with a cream silk pencil skirt, leaving her toned midriff on full display.

She elevated her height with a pair of white Jimmy Choo high heels, while her sleek blonde hair was still perfectly straightened and styled.

The Queen's Gambit star added a statement silver necklace, dripping in diamonds and gave a pop of colour to her look with a dark pink lip.

Her new husband, Malcolm McRae, who she tied the knot with in October last year, was also seen attending the party.

The Levitating hitmaker added a statement gold choker and diamond earrings, while toting a black clutch bag

While Callum cut a typically dapped figure in a smart black suit and tie as he shared a look of love with his pop star girlfriend

Callum and Dua only confirmed their romance last month, during a very public display of affection in Hollywood

The couple couldn't keep their hands off each other following a romantic dinner date only a few weeks after first being romantically linked

News of their romance broke when the two stars were spotted getting cozy at a Beverly Hills party for his show Masters of the Air

The pair were seen with their faces close together, though it was unclear whether they locked lips during their romantic interlude

As he left the party, Callum was asked whether he and Dua were an item - and rather than issuing a denial, he poured fuel on the fire by remaining coyly silent

The couple seem to be going from strength to strength, with Dua being seen meeting Callum's mother Rosemary on Tuesday, on Callum's birthday

Anya Taylor-Joy was also seen making her way home from the glitzy party, still looking impeccable in a gold Fendi bralette

The actress, 27, teamed the top with a cream silk pencil skirt, leaving her toned midriff on full display

She elevated her height with a pair of white Jimmy Choo high heels, while her sleek blonde hair was still perfectly straightened and styled

The Queen's Gambit star added a statement silver necklace, dripping in diamonds and gave a pop of colour to her look with a dark pink lip

Her new husband, Malcolm McRae, who she tied the knot with in October last year, was also seen attending the party

He sweetly helped his wife out of their car, holding her hand, while dressed in a stylish brown plaid suit

Florence Pugh ensured all eyes were on her as she attended the party in a plunging white gown with sheer lace cutouts

Her figure-hugging dress also boasted an asymmetrical hem, to show off her toned legs, while she draped an eye-catching feather boa over her shoulders

The actress, 28, gave herself an extra few inches of height with a pair of white high heels, while her short hair was slicked back from her face

As she climbed into her waiting car, Florence looked every inch the movie star, donning a pair of purple tinted sunglasses

He sweetly helped his wife out of their car, holding her hand, while dressed in a stylish brown plaid suit.

Florence Pugh ensured all eyes were on her as she attended the party in a plunging white gown with sheer lace cutouts.

Her figure-hugging dress also boasted an asymmetrical hem, to show off her toned legs, while she draped an eye-catching feather boa over her shoulders.

The actress, 28, gave herself an extra few inches of height with a pair of white high heels, while her short hair was slicked back from her face.

As she climbed into her waiting car, Florence looked every inch the movie star, donning a pair of purple tinted sunglasses.

Phoebe Dynevor stepped out in an elegant yet edgy look for the afterparty, slipping into a strapless black gown.

The sexy number boasted a flowing layered skirt with a leather corsetted bodice, that emphasized her tiny waist.

The Bridgerton star, 28, beamed as she exited, wearing black strappy high heels and toting a matching quilted clutch.

Phoebe Dynevor stepped out in an elegant yet edgy look for the afterparty, slipping into a strapless black gown

The sexy number boasted a flowing layered skirt with a leather corsetted bodice, that emphasized her tiny waist

The Bridgerton star, 28, beamed as she exited, wearing black strappy high heels and toting a matching quilted clutch

Her hair was slicked back in a sophisticated bun and she opted for subtle makeup and minimal jewellery

Rosie Huntington-Whiteley put on a daring display as she left in a long-sleeved black roll neck bodysuit

Over the top, the model layered a sheer polka dot maxi skirt with a dramatic furry train, allowing a glimpse at her long legs

She boosted her already towering frame in matching black high heels, while styling her long blonde hair in soft waves

Rosie accessorised by adding a dazzling silver necklace, layering a number of silver bracelets and flashing her huge diamond engagement ring, from Jason Statham

As she departed the bash, Rosie toted a black leather clutch and wrapped up in a faux fur coat

THE BAFTA WINNERS AT A GLANCE Best Film - Oppenheimer Best Director - Christopher Nolan, Oppenheimer Supporting Actor - Robert Downey Jr, Oppenheimer Leading Actor - Cillian Murphy, Oppenheimer Leading Actress - Emma Stone, Poor Things Supporting Actress - Da'vine Joy Randolph, The Holdovers Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Her hair was slicked back in a sophisticated bun and she opted for subtle makeup and minimal jewellery.

Rosie Huntington-Whiteley put on a daring display as she left in a long-sleeved black roll neck bodysuit.

Over the top, the model layered a sheer polka dot maxi skirt with a dramatic furry train, allowing a glimpse at her long legs.

She boosted her already towering frame in matching black high heels, while styling her long blonde hair in soft waves.

Rosie accessorised by adding a dazzling silver necklace, layering a number of silver bracelets and flashing her huge diamond engagement ring, from Jason Statham.

As she departed the bash, Rosie toted a black leather clutch and wrapped up in a faux fur coat.

Claire Foy, who had been nominated for Best Supporting Actress, looked nothing short of sensational as she attended the late night bash in a gorgeous white lace gown.

Her off-the-shoulder frock fitted like a glove and boasted sheer sleeves as well as black trim detailing.

Claire Foy, who had been nominated for Best Supporting Actress, looked nothing short of sensational as she attended the late night bash in a gorgeous white lace gown

Her off-the-shoulder frock fitted like a glove and boasted sheer sleeves as well as black trim detailing

Her All Of Us Strangers co-star Andrew Scott was also seen leaving, looking in high spirits, despite losing out on Best Actor to Cillian Murphy

The actor, 47, showcased his fashion forward sense of style as he rocked a bright red suit with a matching shirt underneath and even coordinated his shoes

Sophie Ellis-Bextor continued to dazzle after the glitzy party in an eye-catching green minidress, encrusted in sequins

The pop singer's legs were on full display in her sparkling number, which also featured dramatic fringed sleeves

She completed the look with a pair of sparking silver heels and highlighted her stunning eyes with bright blue eyeshadow

Claire accentuated her features with radiant make-up and swept her brunette locks into a bun, while carrying a unique black feathery handbag.

Her All Of Us Strangers co-star Andrew Scott was also seen leaving, looking in high spirits, despite losing out on Best Actor to Cillian Murphy.

The actor, 47, showcased his fashion forward sense of style as he rocked a bright red suit with a matching shirt underneath and even coordinated his shoes.

Sophie Ellis-Bextor continued to dazzle after the glitzy party in an eye-catching green minidress, encrusted in sequins.

The pop singer, 44, who's Noughties hit Murder On The Dancefloor featured in smash hit Saltburn, performed the track at the ceremony earlier in the evening.

Her legs were on full display in her sparkling number, which also featured dramatic fringed sleeves.

She completed the look with a pair of sparking silver heels and highlighted her stunning eyes with bright blue eyeshadow.

Eleanor Tomlinson was among the stylish stars exited the bash, putting on a leggy display in a sleek black minidress.

Eleanor Tomlinson was among the stylish stars exited the bash, putting on a leggy display in a sleek black minidress

The chic number featured wrap detailing around the shoulders and she completed the look with a pair of opaque tights and pointed heels

The actress opted for a natural makeup look and left her fiery red hair to flow freely around her shoulders as she hopped in a car with Nicola Coughlan

Poppy Delevingne showed off her incredible figure while leaving the shindig in a strappy black sequinned bralette

The model paired the crop top with an extravagant ruffled skirt, complete with a dramatic train

She finished off the striking look with a pair of bejewelled heels and wore her blonde tresses swept behind her ears, exposing chunky silver hoop earrings

She kept her makeup natural by wearing a nude lipstick and a simple cat-eye eyeliner look

The chic number featured wrap detailing around the shoulders and she completed the look with a pair of opaque tights and pointed heels.

The actress opted for a natural makeup look and left her fiery red hair to flow freely around her shoulders as she hopped in a car with Nicola Coughlan.

Poppy Delevingne showed off her incredible figure while leaving the shindig in a strappy black sequinned bralette.

The model paired the crop top with an extravagant ruffled skirt, complete with a dramatic train.

She finished off the striking look with a pair of bejewelled heels and wore her blonde tresses swept behind her ears, exposing chunky silver hoop earrings.

She kept her makeup natural by wearing a nude lipstick and a simple cat-eye eyeliner look.

She was joined by her younger sister Cara Delevingne, who also looked sensational in a racy black midi dress.

The model, 31, commanded attention as she went braless under the sleeveless plunging semi-sheer dazzling number.

She was joined by her younger sister Cara Delevingne , who also looked sensational in a racy black midi dress

She elevated her frame in a pair of black towering heels and left her long blonde tresses loose

Cara wrapped up from the chilly winter weather in a long black coat as she made her exit from the venue

Kaia Gerber commanded everyone's attention in a dazzling gold dress on the way out of Annabel's

The model, 22, looked nothing short of sensational in the bold strapless number, that was covered with fringe, with a voluminous layer neckline

Her long legs were on full display and she lengthened them even more with a pair of coordinating gold high heels

Leaving her long waved brunette tresses loose, the daughter of supermodel Cindy Crawford completed her evening outfit with a flawless palette of makeup

Kaia carried her essential belongings in a metallic gold clutch and graciously stopped to take selfies with fans on her way

She elevated her frame in a pair of black towering heels and left her long blonde tresses loose.

Cara wrapped up from the chilly winter weather in a long black coat as she made her exit from the venue.

Kaia Gerber commanded everyone's attention in a dazzling gold dress on the way out of Annabel's.

The model, 22, looked nothing short of sensational in the bold strapless number, that was covered with fringe, with a voluminous layer neckline.

Her long legs were on full display and she lengthened them even more with a pair of coordinating gold high heels.

Leaving her long waved brunette tresses loose, the daughter of supermodel Cindy Crawford completed her evening outfit with a flawless palette of makeup.

Kaia carried her essential belongings in a metallic gold clutch and graciously stopped to take selfies with fans on her way.

Meanwhile, Emily Blunt, 40, cut a chic figure in a lowcut white bralette adorned with quirky feathers.

Meanwhile, Emily Blunt , 40, cut a chic figure in a lowcut white bralette adorned with quirky feathers that showed off her toned midriff

She teamed it with a figure-hugging black satin maxi skirt, with a gold heart on the front, a cropped black blazer and platform heels

The actress' top showed off her toned midriff and she teamed it with a figure-hugging black satin maxi skirt, with a gold heart on the front.

Emily, who had been nominated for Best Actress at the awards, completed the ensemble with cropped black blazer and platform heels.

Formula One driver Lewis Hamilton and Vogue editor-in-chief Anna Wintour left the bash together.

Lewis cut a smart figure in a black ensemble complete with a long coat while Anna looked glamorous in a black and white striped dress and sunglasses.

Jameela Jamil opted for a campy look in a black figure-hugging gown, which had a plunging sweetheart neckline and a split up the left leg.

FKA Twigs left little to the imagination in a cut-out sheer top which displayed both her nude bra and toned physique.

She completed the racy look with thigh-high split skirt and teased a glimpse of black underwear while slipping her feet into towering platform boots.

The musical artist, whose full name is Tahliah Debrett Barnett, also wore a sheepskin aviator jacket as she left the swanky event with boyfriend Jordan Hemingway.

Formula One driver Lewis Hamilton and Vogue editor-in-chief Anna Wintour left the bash together

Lewis cut a smart figure in a black ensemble complete with a long coat while Anna looked glamorous in a black and white striped dress and sunglasses

Jameela Jamil opted for a campy look in a black figure-hugging gown, which had a plunging sweetheart neckline and a split up the left leg

FKA Twigs left little to the imagination in a cut-out sheer top which displayed both her nude bra and toned physique

She completed the racy look with thigh-high split skirt and teased a glimpse of black underwear while slipping her feet into towering platform boots

The musical artist, whose full name is Tahliah Debrett Barnett, also wore a sheepskin aviator jacket as she left the swanky event with boyfriend Jordan Hemingway

Rosamund Pike cut a typically kooky figure in a Simone Rocha outfit, made up of semi-sheer chiffon blouse, which was embroidered with a series of snakes and all-seeing eyes.

The statement piece was teamed with a matching puff-ball style skirt, which showcased her endless legs with its see-through fabric.

EE BAFTA Rising Star winner Mia McKenna-Bruce looked in high spirits as she made her way home from the bash in a little black dress that showed off her incredible legs.

The halterneck garment was adorned with glittering embellishment and also offered a look at her toned arms, while she added a pair of diamond earrings and peeptoe heels.

Alexa Chung opted for a daring outfit as she left the after party with her rumoured fiancé Tom Sturridge.

The model, 40, put on a risque display as she went braless in a netted gold sparkly dress over a pair of sheer black tights, while adding a black coat.

Idris Elba opted for smart but casual attire, wearing an olive green shirt and a pair of matching trousers, while he shielded his eyes behind a pair of dark sunglasses.

Rochelle Humes looked incredible in her stylish green ensemble as she rubbed shoulders with Hollywood A-listers.

Rosamund Pike cut a typically kooky figure in a Simone Rocha outfit, made up of semi-sheer chiffon blouse, which was embroidered with a series of snakes and all-seeing eyes

The statement piece was teamed with a matching puff-ball style skirt, which showcased her endless legs with its see-through fabric

EE BAFTA Rising Star winner Mia McKenna-Bruce looked in high spirits as she made her way home from the bash in a little black dress that showed off her incredible legs

The halterneck garment was adorned with glittering embellishment and also offered a look at her toned arms, while she added a pair of diamond earrings and peeptoe heels

Alexa Chung opted for a daring outfit as she left the after party with her rumoured fiancé Tom Sturridge

The model, 40, put on a risque display as she went braless in a netted gold sparkly dress over a pair of sheer black tights, while adding a black coat

Idris Elba opted for smart but casual attire, wearing an olive green shirt and a pair of matching trousers, while he shielded his eyes behind a pair of dark sunglasses

Rochelle Humes looked incredible in her stylish green ensemble as she rubbed shoulders with Hollywood A-listers

Her look featured a skin-tight leather top and silky skirt which boasted a thigh-high split to show off her toned legs, while she completed the outfit with oversized leather coat

Her look featured a skin-tight leather top and silky skirt which boasted a thigh-high split to show off her toned legs, while she completed the outfit with oversized leather coat.

Isla Fisher also opted for a green look, slipping into a bright jade minidress for the star-studded party.

The actress added a pair of black knee high boots and toted a coordinating black quilted handbag.

Hugh Grant was joined by his glamorous wife Anna Elisabet Eberstein at the fun-filled bash.

The actor, 63, looked dapper in a black tuxedo with an open collared white shirt and bow tie as he walked out with his beloved wife Anna, 41.

Anna dazzled in a glitzy multi-coloured mini dress and flashed her incredibly toned legs in stylish court heels.

Brian Cox looked smart in his black suit and bow tie as he left the party with his wife Nicole Ansari-Cox.

Kate Beckinsale turned heads as she wowed in a daring black dress which featured a lace bodice, high-legged corset and a long black train skirt.

Kate kept a serious expression after her late stepfather Roy Battersby was not included in the In Memoriam segment during the 77th British Academy Film Awards at the Royal Festival Hall.

Gripping the hand of a friend, the star piled her blonde locks away from her face in an elegant up do complete with a large black bow.

Isla Fisher also opted for a green look, slipping into a bright jade minidress for the star-studded party

The actress added a pair of black knee high boots and toted a coordinating black quilted handbag

Hugh Grant was joined by his glamorous wife Anna Elisabet Eberstein at the fun-filled bash

The actor, 63, looked dapper in a black tuxedo with an open collared white shirt and bow tie as he walked out with his beloved wife Anna, 41

Anna dazzled in a glitzy multi-coloured mini dress and flashed her incredibly toned legs in stylish court heels

Brian Cox looked smart in his black suit and bow tie as he left the party with his wife Nicole Ansari-Cox

Kate Beckinsale turned heads as she wowed in a daring black dress which featured a lace bodice, high-legged corset and a long black train skirt

Kate kept a serious expression after her late stepfather Roy Battersby was not included in the In Memoriam segment during the 77th British Academy Film Awards at the Royal Festival Hall

Gripping the hand of a friend, the star piled her blonde locks away from her face in an elegant up do complete with a large black bow

Lady Mary Charteris flashed her toned legs in a draped white gown with silver diamond detailing at her waist