Perhaps the most worrying aspect of Lynsey Hipgrave’s brush with Twitter this week is that the BT Sport presenter should have some regrets about highlighting the sexist abuse polluting her timeline.

Hipgrave’s only crime was to have a view on Lionel Messi’s penalty last Sunday, just one of several hundred thousand tweets after he rolled the ball into the path of Luis Suarez at the Nou Camp.

What followed was an alarming wave of sexist abuse, much of it so improper that Hipgrave decided to retweet some of the messages.

Lynsey Hipgrave was subjected to abuse on Twitter after labelling Lionel Messi's penalty as 'disrespectful'

Hipgrave was anchoring BT Sport's Europa League coverage on Thursday night

Hipgrave alongside (left to right) Jermaine Jenas, Steve McManaman and David James

The BT Sport presenter was soon subjected to criticism from online trolls who claimed she should 'stay in the kitchen' and 'shut up' after posting her opinion of the penalty on Twitter (pictured)

Messi tees up the ball from the penalty spot for the on-rushing Suarez (right) on Sunday night

A quick trawl through her Twitter feed will give a better insight into the kind of routine abuse to which women working in sport have become accustomed.

One tasteless individual made an obscene observation before concluding ‘this is why we don’t hire females unless we need our food cooked’.

In an era when Sky Sports, for example, use many women presenters, it is important that the football community really understands the challenging issues they face.

Until Hipgrave highlighted the problem, many were probably unaware of the derogatory comments that female presenters receive every day.

It is a question of respect. There is no justifiable excuse for someone responding to Hipgrave with such inappropriate comments.

Examples of the abuse Hipgrave received on Twitter following her tweet about Messi's penalty

Although unaware that it would become one of the week’s major talking points, there is no reason she should regret bringing it to public attention. Instead, it is for Twitter to put appropriate controls in place.

If the organisation can involve the police when it comes to racist abuse, they should be just as pro-active with sexist comments.

Hipgrave does not stand alone. Countless female TV presenters have had similar experiences after posting an observation on a public platform. Sadly, Twitter’s 305million active users prefer to ignore these issues rather than confront them.

It has not been an easy week for Hipgrave, with various TV programmes, newspapers (including this one) and magazines asking her to speak on the issue. So far, she has declined them all.

In the past, like most women in an environment dominated by males, she has ignored the regular Twitter abuse telling her to ‘get back into the kitchen’.

By working with former professional footballers Hipgrave knows that the laddish culture of the dressing room is soon transferred to the green room when ex-players get together.

Hipgrave, pictured with Ian Wright, centre, and Peter Taylor, right, works as a presenter for BT Sport and co-hosts a BBC Radio 5 Live show with Danny Baker

The 36-year-old retweeted the worst of the abuse for her 27,000 Twitter followers before posting this message

Having previously worked with Hipgrave, who was hosting Thursday night’s Europa League coverage on BT Sport, she is not a woman who is easily offended. She grew up in Newcastle in a household dominated by talk of the Kevin Keegan team that nearly won the Premier League in the mid-Nineties.

At weekends she would go with her dad to reserve team games at St James’ Park, or to watch her brother playing for Blaydon Youth.

When it comes to football she is passionate and would certainly prefer to be remembered for her skills as a TV presenter rather than as a glamorous pin-up.

In terms of her professional approach to her broadcasting career, you would be hard pushed to find anyone who works harder on preparation and research.

Unwittingly, Hipgrave has forced attention on to the issue of sexist abuse. It is something for which she should be saluted. Without it, the rogues who ruin the Twitter experience win hands down.

Arnesen chases United role

Frank Arnesen has not worked in English football since leaving Chelsea in 2010, but his name has come up again as the Glazers consider a reshuffle at Manchester United.

Ed Woodward, the executive vice chairman, has no intention of giving up handling player recruitment, but Arnesen, 59, is nothing if not a charmer when it comes to talking himself into jobs.

Frank Arnesen has not worked in English football since leaving Chelsea in 2010

Woodward has handled all major transfer activity since replacing David Gill, but the appointment of a technical director at United is still a possibility.

Arnesen’s reputation took a battering as sporting director at Chelsea, where his relationship with Jose Mourinho was never on an even keel.

Mourinho’s resolve to land the United job in the summer will be something Arnesen needs to work on if he is to convince the Glazers to hire him.

The financial commitment to Chelsea’s youth academy by club owner Roman Abramovich shows no sign of slowing up after work began on a new indoor centre at the club’s training ground.

Chelsea, under pressure from Manchester City, Barcelona and Real Madrid for the world’s best youngsters, expect the facelift to be completed before the start of next season.

Referee Bobby Madley responded to player power at Selhurst Park when he awarded Watford captain Troy Deeney a 16th-minute penalty last Saturday.

Deeney told Madley to watch Palace midfielder Mile Jedinak holding him before the corner kick was taken, an incident that led to the referee correctly giving Quique Sanchez Flores’ team the chance to score from the spot.

Troy Deeney celebrates after scoring a penalty for Watford against Crystal Palace on Saturday

Manchester City pulled out of a move to buy a mystery club in South America last month and have instead turned their attention to the rapidly growing football market in China.