A drug-addicted young man who stole an Uber driver's car, threatened to kill him and then slammed the Toyota Kluger into oncoming traffic on the Sydney Harbour Bridge, bringing the city to a standstill in the process, has avoided prison.

In the NSW District Court on Monday, Christopher Walker, 21, learned he wouldn't be jailed over the fiery crash, which nearly claimed his life and left one man in hospital for more than a month.

He had pleaded guilty to assault with intent to take motor vehicle and dangerous driving occasioning actual bodily harm.

The court heard Walker, who was 19 at the time, had taken ice on the morning of March 7, 2022, before approaching Uber driver Aetaz Farooq, who was fixing a punctured tyre on Sussex St in the city's CBD.

'You have a nice car, mate,' Walker told him before jumping in the driver's seat.

Christopher Walker (pictured) has been spared jail after he caused a fiery crash on the Sydney Harbour Bridge in 2022

The court was told Walker asked Mr Farooq to turn the car on, before snatching the keys off him in a struggle and pushing the Uber driver to the ground.

'Get the f..k away from the car or I'll kill you,' he said, according to court documents, before speeding away.

Moments later, Walker sped on to the Sydney Harbour Bridge before his car careened into oncoming traffic, slamming into a Toyota HiAce van being driven by Andrew Cheng.

Another car, a blue Honda CRV, tried to brake suddenly but slammed into the passenger side of the van in a three-car pile-up.

The force of the crash flipped the stolen Toyota Kluger, which immediately caught fire, trapping Walker upside down, the court was told.

Court documents revealed nearby motorists managed to free Walker and pull him through the window, having to move his body out of reach of the flames.

The stolen vehicle burst into flames (pictured) after the SUV flipped over after it crashed into an oncoming van

Walker drove the SUV into oncoming traffic on the Sydney Harbour Bridge (pictured) causing a multi-car pile up which led to one motorist suffering several injuries

The court heard Mr Cheng suffered numerous injuries, had to undergo three surgeries and was kept in hospital for a month.

Judge Justin Smith told the court he found Walker to be genuine and honest when he took to the witness stand and previously told the court he felt 'horrible'.

Walker, who suffered a collapsed lung, spent six months in custody before being released into a rehabilitation centre.

Judge Smith sentenced Walker to an aggregate prison sentence of two years and nine months, to be served in the community by way of an Intensive Corrections Order.