The term 'Fifth Column' originated in the Spanish Civil War (1936-1939). It refers to a clandestine group of people who attempt to undermine a nation's solidarity from within, on behalf of another nation or enemy.

During the Cold War there was a small Fifth Column, concentrated in MI6 and the Foreign Office, and represented in the wilder reaches of the trade union movement. Their first loyalty was to the Soviet Union instead of their own country.

Is there now a Fifth Column within the Labour Party, whose primary allegiance is neither to Labour nor to Britain — a collection of people united by a hatred of Israel and a strong, though largely covert, support for a 'Free Palestine'?

If the existence of such a faction were established, that would be bad news for Sir Keir Starmer. It would suggest that Labour is not an exclusively national party and that the sympathies of some of its MPs and supporters — a minority, to be sure, but an influential one — lie beyond our shores.

Have we got there yet? Not quite. But there's no doubt about the severity of the crisis facing Sir Keir. He told us that the anti-Semitism which disfigured the Labour Party during the Corbyn era had been excised. It's now clear that the operation was cosmetic.

Several anti-Israeli and anti-Semitic remarks (there is a distinction) uttered by various Labour characters have come to light in recent days. In my opinion, the most disquieting of them has received relatively little attention.

Labour has withdrawn its support for Azhar Ali ahead of the Rochdale by-election this month. Pictured: Mr Ali at his campaign launch last week, with Manchester mayor Andy Burnham

Rochdale's by-election takes place on 29 February. The legal deadline for changing names on the ballot has passed, so Mr Ali will still be listed as a Labour candidate

A meeting of the Lancashire Labour Party took place, shortly after Hamas's barbaric attack on Israel on October 7, at which a variety of anti-Israeli and anti-Semitic views were expressed.

It was on this occasion that the subsequently disowned Labour candidate for Rochdale, Azhar Ali, floated the crazy conspiracy theory that Israel had deliberately allowed 1,400 of its citizens to be massacred so that it could have a pretext to invade Gaza. He also alleged that 'people in the media from Jewish quarters' had fuelled criticism of a pro-Palestinian Labour MP.

More shocking still was Mr Ali's contention at the same meeting that the 'only reason' Labour shadow ministers hadn't resigned last year over Starmer's stance on the conflict was that Husam Zomlot, the Palestinian ambassador to the UK, had told them that doing so would 'weaken the Palestinian voice in Parliament'.

This suggests that a number of Labour MPs were in touch with the Palestinian ambassador, and that they were being guided by him. This is what I mean about a Fifth Column.

If what Mr Ali says is true, some Labour MPs felt (and doubtless still feel) a greater loyalty to the Palestinian cause than they do to the policies presented by their party leader. In other words, Sir Keir doesn't speak for his whole party.

We know that 56 Labour MPs defied him last November by voting for a Commons amendment calling for a ceasefire, and that eight Labour frontbenchers, including Jess Phillips, resigned. A few dozen Labour councillors also walked over the same issue.

However, Ms Phillips was the only member of the shadow cabinet to resign. Mr Ali was therefore correct in suggesting there hasn't been a mass walkout of members of the shadow cabinet.

In fact, at least two serving members of the shadow cabinet have taken extreme anti-Israeli positions. Thangam Debbonaire, shadow culture secretary, said in 2015 that selling arms to Israel was a 'grave concern', and accused the Jewish state of violating international law. Shabana Mahmood, shadow justice secretary, has urged people to 'boycott Israeli goods'.

Neither can be convicted of anti-Semitism on this evidence. But there are prominent Labour MPs who can be justly accused. Afzal Khan, a former shadow minister, has compared the Israeli government to the Nazis. Zarah Sultana accused Israel of 'genocidal intent' last month.

And then there is Graham Jones, a former Labour MP due to stand again. At the meeting where Azhar Ali let rip, Mr Jones referred to 'f****** Israel' and recommended that Britons who volunteer to fight for the Israel Defence Forces be 'locked up'. He has now been suspended. Given similar previously expressed views, it's hard to understand why he was selected in the first place.

That so many extreme opinions were aired at a single Lancashire Labour Party gathering is extraordinary. So is the apparent absence of reasonable views such as Sir Keir Starmer stands for. If someone hadn't been present with a recording device, we wouldn't know what went on. How many similar Labour meetings have there been about which we remain ignorant?

Sir Keir has been engaged in a massive PR blitz. But the line he has been busily selling — that he has extirpated the last vestiges of anti-Semitism in his party — turns out to be bogus.

This is why he dithered after the Mail on Sunday revealed Azhar Ali's crackpot conspiracy theories. People like Mr Ali aren't supposed to flourish in Sir Keir's allegedly sanitised Labour Party. So the errant prospective candidate was forced to eat humble pie and renounce every word he had uttered. Alas for him — and Sir Keir — Tuesday's Mail produced further evidence of Mr Ali's extremism.

Some will say that this amounts to a storm in a teacup. They will claim that voters don't care much about Gaza. Some may even sympathise with the likes of Mr Ali, and believe that Israel has overreacted to the events of October 7.

It is an alluring argument. I'm sure some voters are indifferent to what is happening in Gaza, and others, particularly younger ones, blame the Israelis. But I also believe there are many decent people in the middle — those whose support Sir Keir needs if he's going to enter No. 10 — who will be troubled by the idea of a Fifth Column within Labour.

Naturally, British Muslims have every right to support the Palestinian cause, as British Jews have every right to support the Israeli cause. There is however this important distinction: there are about 14 times as many Muslims as Jews in this country.

If voters fear that the representatives of some Muslim communities are secretly undermining official Labour policy, and prioritising Palestinian interests, the huge lead that Sir Keir and his party enjoy could begin to crumble.

Sir Keir knows this, of course, though I don't imagine he would embrace the term 'Fifth Column'. He understands that many voters don't relish the idea of some Labour MPs being devoted to a foreign cause, and giving vent to anti-Semitic feelings.

Commentators have discussed the risk of Muslim voters turning away from Labour, and backing explicitly pro-Palestinian candidates, or not voting at all. But there's another, greater risk for Labour — that of middle-ground voters becoming fearful of a party that may be fatally compromised.

That is why this is a crisis for Sir Keir. It explains his state of panic. Every time a piece of evidence appears that contradicts his claim to have cleaned up his party, he attempts to stamp on it.

But then another case erupts, and then another. Try as he may, Sir Keir Starmer can't convince us that he has really taken anti-Semitism out of the Labour Party.