The lot where the Florida home of famed gangster Al Capone once stood is up for sale at a whopping $23.9million asking price.

The property on the exclusive Palm Island, a man-made isle off the coast of Miami, is being advertised as a 30,000-square-foot lot that could accommodate a 15,000 mansion.

Over the objection of local preservationists, Capone's home, which is where he died of a heart attack in 1947 at the age of 48, was torn down last summer.

The land is now being pitched as an opportunity for an ultra-rich individual to construct his or her dream home.

Prior to its demolition, Capone's home on the property was an elegant Spanish Colonial-style villa with waterfront views.

The empty Palm Island lot that just hit the market for some $24million where famed American gangster Al Capone's vacation home used to stand

The former home of Al Capone is seen during a tour of the historic house on March 18, 2015 in Miami Beach, Florida

The American gangster paid $40,000 in 1928 for the home - less than $1million of today's dollars.

During Capone's time at the estate, there was a 60-foot pool with a cabana, a private beach, and a gatehouse.

In 1947, after neurosyphilis had rotted Capone's brain for years, reducing his mental faculties to those of an adolescent, he died several days after suffering a stroke.

It is said that he spent his final years in the home fishing and playing one man tennis against a wall as his mind regressed.

Now, the empty waterfront lot, flanked by $50million homes, has been listed for the first time since 2015 with Douglas Elliman - Dina Goldentayer is the listing agent.

Several years ago, the property, which included the house at the time, was sold by developer Todd Michael Glaser and a business partner to the current owner for $15.5million.

The current owner, who made the decision to raze the house, is listed only as an LLC.

Capone's house was demolished in August of last year to the great displeasure of the Historic Preservation Association of Coral Gables, which called the action 'nothing less than sacrilege,' according to Mansion Global.

The property on Palm Island is being marketed as a spacious lot with ample room for construction of a dream mansion - seen here is a rendering of what a newly constructed home might look like

The lot offers 100 feet of waterfront access, perfect for the possibility of building a dock for one's private sea vessels

840 SEI*189648967 Infamous gangster Al Capone smokes a cigar on the train carrying him to the federal penitentiary in Atlanta where he began serving his 11-year sentence

The lot is surrounded by equally extravagantly priced mansions

American gangster Al Capone ('Scarface') (1899 - 1947) relaxes in his vacation home, Miami, Florida, 1930 - the home where the empty lot now sits

An aerial shot shows what once was of the holiday home of Capone, that has now been demolished

The pool cabana is seen during a tour of the former home of Al Capone on March 18, 2015 in Miami Beach, Florida

'Wealthy individuals have always been drawn to Palm and Hibiscus Islands because of their estate-size parcels, security and proximity to popular destinations,' said Dina Goldentayer, the property's listing agent

Goldentayer makes the case that to the uberwealthy potential buyers of the property, the land's historic ties are really not a primary selling point.

Rather, the safety of the guard-gated community, proximity to popular destinations, and the size of the lot are what will ultimately appeal to buyers.

'Wealthy individuals have always been drawn to Palm and Hibiscus Islands because of their estate-size parcels, security and proximity to popular destinations,' she told Mansion Global.

'I think what will attract buyers is the rarity of a parcel of this caliber on Palm Island.'