NeNe Leakes will not be returning to the Real Housewives of Atlanta — at least for now.

The reality star, who will star in the Lifetime drama Hunting Housewives with Denise Richards, will not be part of season 16 of the popular reality series, according to TMZ.

The outlet reported that NeNe, 56, has not been in talks with the RHOA producers, and she has not been pursing talks with them either.

This will come as a huge disappointment to fans who have been making social media posts requesting she return to the drama.

NeNe, who was a breakout star when the show launched, left in 2020 and filed a lawsuit two years later alleging that she was subjected to a toxic work environment suffused with racism.

NeNe Leakes, 56, will not be a part of the Real Housewives of Atlanta cast (Pictured in Los Angeles in June 2022)

She later asked that the lawsuit be dismissed.

According to Radar, the former queen bee has suffered a series of financial setbacks since leaving the show.

Documents show the state of Georgia has placed a lien against her in an effort to collect $17,785.22 in unpaid taxes.

With interest and fees, that amount has swelled to more than $28,000.

She also owes an additional $25,000 to her former landlord after falling behind on the rent for her former Swagg Boutique.

Her family's financial problems don't end there.

NeNe's son Bryson Bryant, is also being sued for $30,000 in unpaid child support.

His ex, Symone Davis, claims he has not paid a cent of the $708.00 per month required for the care of their son, Blaze.

Last year, he spent three months in jail after being arrested for possessing fentanyl, and Symone wants him back behind bars until he fulfills his court-ordered obligations.

A glimpse of her social media feed indicates NeNe is earning money through paid partnerships as an influencer.

She has been posting about using a product called What Waist which makes a compression garment used to give a slimmer look and to help boost sweat production during exercise.

NeNe is hoping to boost her fortunes in front of the camera.

NeNe left RHOA in 2020 and filed a lawsuit in 2022, alleging racism behind the scenes. She later asked that the suit be dismissed; still from RHOA

In spite of a campaign by fans to bring her back to the show, no talks have taken place between NeNe and the show's producers, according to TMZ; still from RHOA

The reality star has been facing a series of financial problems since leaving the show in 2020. Documents show the state of Georgia placed a lien against her to collect $17,785.22 in taxes. With interest and fees, that amount has swelled to more than $28K; seen in 2020

NeNe also owes $25k to her former landlord after falling behind on rent for her Swagg Boutique

The entrepreneur seems to have been making a living through product partnerships as an influencer. She also hopes to get back in front of the camera. 'I hope that you guys will see me again in acting roles. That’s the hope and the prayer,' she told Hello Beautiful

'I hope that you guys will see me again in acting roles. That’s the hope and the prayer,' she told Hello Beautiful.

'I love acting. I have opportunities where we are still discussing me as an actress.

The entrepreneur, who has admitted to undergoing cosmetic procedures, said she has not regret about that aspect of her life.

'I look in the mirror all day honey, and I love what I see. I feel very good. I feel very blessed to still even be on Earth to look in a mirror. Physically, I am happy where I am. Emotionally, it could get better.'