Michael Sheen cosied up with his girlfriend Anna Lundberg on the red carpet at the 77th EE British Academy Film Awards held at the Royal Festival Hall on Sunday.

The actor, 55, has been dating Swedish actress Anna, 30, since 2019 and the pair put on a loved-up display as they entered the glitzy awards do.

The Twilight star stood with his arm around his girlfriend, and kept a casual stance in his dapper tuxedo with one hand in his pocket.

Anna looked suitably glamorous for the event, opting for a Barbie pink dress that went all the way down to the floor whilst her tousled blonde locks hung neatly around her shoulders.

The couple then linked arms as they made their way into the awards do, where Michael was seen performing in the opening sketch with host David Tennant.

Michael Sheen cosied up with his girlfriend Anna Lundberg on the red carpet at the 77th EE British Academy Film Awards held at the Royal Festival Hall on Sunday

The film star - who has previously dated the likes of Kate Beckinsale and Rachel McAdams - stood proudly with Anna on the red carpet

Along with Georgia Tennant, Stanley Tucci, Himesh Patel, Tom Hiddleston and Dame Judi Dench, the former Doctor Who star kicked off the proceedings with a skit that saw them attempting to find a dog sitter for Michael.

After failing to find someone to look after Bark Ruffalo, David brought the pooch out onto the stage with him.

He joked: 'Never work with animals or Michael Sheen!'

Tennant, who is hosting the star-studded ceremony for the first time, recently admitted he was bewildered by the prospect of compering to so many people.

He told Variety: 'I don’t know what to expect, if I’m honest with you.

'The whole thing just feels like one of those experiences you say “yes” to because it would be churlish not to. But what an amazing thing to be asked to do. What a privilege.'

The Scottish actor also insisted he will adopt a softer approach to the abrasive style used to great effect by Ricky Gervais at the Golden Globes.

'I think the BAFTA mood is supportive and friendly,' he added. 'Ricky Gervais is brilliant at what he does, but that wouldn’t be my style.

The Twilight star teamed up with Staged co-star David Tennant for a sketch to open the awards show

Former Doctor Who star David Tennant is fronting the biggest night in film but will hand the reins over to a slew of guest presenters throughout the night

The British Academy of Film and Television Arts is a world-leading independent arts charity that draws attention to the best of film, games and television and supports the development of creative talent in the United Kingdom and the wide world.

The organisation also celebrates excellence and nurtures fresh talent through year-round workshops, scholarships, masterclasses, mentoring schemes and lectures.

The nominees for the BAFTA EE Rising Star Award were announced on January 10, with the official longlist of nominations unveiled on January 18.

This year's ceremony is two hours long and will be broadcast from 7:00pm until 9:00pm on BBC One and will available to stream on BBC iPlayer.