Rochelle Humes looked incredible as she attended the British Vogue and Tiffany & Co afterparty at Annabel's in London on Sunday night.

The TV personality, 34, oozed confidence in her stylish green ensemble as she rubbed shoulders with Hollywood A-listers.

Rochelle's look featured a skin-tight leather top and silky skirt which boasted a thigh-high split to show off her long toned legs.

She completed the outfit with oversized leather coat and added extra height to her frame with a pair of pointed stilettos.

Earlier in the evening Oppenheimer won Best Film as well as sweeping the board in the major categories during the swanky ceremony.

Rochelle Humes, 34, looked incredible as she attended the Vogue BAFTAs afterparty at Annabel's in London on Sunday night

The TV personality oozed confidence in her stylish green ensemble as she rubbed shoulders with Hollywood A-Listers

The epic biographical thriller led the wins with seven gongs, including Best Actor for Cillian Murphy, Best Supporting Actor for Robert Downey Jr and Best Director for Christopher Nolan. It had the most nominations with 13.

The biggest night in British film returned with actor David Tennant as host and an array of guest presenters on hand to deliver awards throughout the night.

Murphy, 47 - who plays the titular role in Nolan's atomic bomb saga - picked up the prize at the prestigious British awards ceremony.

He triumphed against Bradley Cooper for Maestro, Colman Domingo for Rustin, Paul Giamatti for The Holdovers, Barry Keoghan for Saltburn and Teo Yoo for Past Lives.

Accepting the trophy he said: 'Oh boy, holy moly, thank you very, very much BAFTA.'

He paid tribute to 'the most dynamic, kindest producer-director partnership in Hollywood: Chris Nolan and Emma Thomas, thank you for seeing something in me that I probably didn't see in myself.'

The Irish actor said to Nolan: 'Thank for always pushing me and demanding excellence because that is what you deliver time and time again.'

Nolan also acknowledged his 'fellow nominees and my Oppenhomies', adding: 'I know it's a cliche to say, but I'm in awe of you.'

Rochelle's look featured a skin-tight leather top and silky skirt which boasted a thigh-high split to show off her long toned legs

THE BAFTA WINNERS AT A GLANCE Best Film - Oppenheimer Best Director - Christopher Nolan, Oppenheimer Supporting Actor - Robert Downey Jr, Oppenheimer Leading Actor - Cillian Murphy, Oppenheimer Leading Actress - Emma Stone, Poor Things Supporting Actress - Da'vine Joy Randolph, The Holdovers Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

He said J Robert Oppenheimer was a 'colossally knotty character', adding: 'We have a space to debate and interrogate and investigate that complexity and it's a privilege to be a part of this community with you all

Downey Jr, 58, also collected a BAFTA for his role as Lewis Strauss in the Hollywood blockbuster, which has swept the board during the 2024 awards season.

He admitted he owes the award to Nolan, producer Emma Thomas and leading man Murphy, as well as 'British influence'.

Gesturing to Nolan, he said: 'Recently that dude suggested I attempt an understated approach as a last ditch effort to resurrect my dwindling credibility.'

Downey Jr's win set a new record for the longest gap between wins by any performer as it comes 31 years after his previous BAFTA, for the 1993 film Chaplin.

The previous record was 27 years, set by Sir Anthony Hopkins in 2021 when he won the award for best actor for The Father, nearly three decades after his 1994 win for Shadowlands.

Nolan won the Best Director BAFTA for Oppenheimer, his epic tale of how the nuclear bomb was created.

Oppenheimer won Best Film as well as sweeping the board in the major categories during the swanky ceremony (Cillian Murphy with Best Actor Oscar)

Oppenheimer swept up in the big name categories, but it was closely followed by the surreal black comedy Poor Things (Emma Stone pictured with Best Actress Award for Poor Things)

Before accepting the award from actor Hugh Grant, Nolan hugged Murphy.

Nolan joked that his brother 'beat him up here' by being in a chorus of a production 40 years ago.

Nolan has previously lost out despite numerous commercial successes such as Inception and The Dark Knight, the UK-born filmmaker won out against Jonathan Glazer [The Zone of Interest], Justine Triet [Anatomy of a Fall], Alexander Payne [The Holdovers], Bradley Cooper [Maestro] and Andrew Haigh [All of Us Strangers].

He paid tribute to Murphy and added to those who backed the film: 'Thank you for taking on something dark'.

The director also acknowledged the efforts of nuclear disarmament organisations to bring peace.

Oppenheimer swept up in the big name categories, but it was closely followed by the surreal black comedy Poor Things.