The Masked Singer UK winner was revealed as Danny Jones during the final episode of the series on Saturday.

McFly guitarist Danny, 37, was guessed correctly by panellist Davina McCall but she did not believe it was him.

He told her: 'You got me but you didn't believe it!'

Referring to Danny's bandmates Tom Fletcher, Dougie Poynter and Harry Judd, guest panellist Rob Brydon told Danny: 'If we've learned anything, it's time to dump those losers and go it alone. Those guys have been holding you back!'

On winning the show, Danny said: 'It feels surreal. Everything about this show and everything about what I've just done is completely surreal! I have become a Piranha, and no longer Danny Jones!'

The Masked Singer UK winner was revealed as Danny Jones during the final episode of the series on Saturday

On winning the show, Danny said: 'It feels surreal. Everything about this show and everything about what I've just done is surreal! I have become a Piranha, and no longer Danny Jones!'

Danny is the lead guitarist with McFly (L-R: Tom Fletcher, Danny, Dougie Poynter and Harry Judd pictured last year)

On how hard it was to keep his participation in this year's competition a secret, Danny said: 'Very hard and even more so now I’ve won.

'It's been really difficult because I get excited by stuff very easily and I'm all in when I do something. I'm meant to be on tour.

'It's been very difficult, but that’s part of the fun, isn’t it?'

And on whether the rest of McFly would be surprised to find out he was Piranha, he said: 'I think that the boys will be very surprised. I am my own worst enemy, so I'm always like, "That wasn’t very good", so they always build me up.

'They’ll guess me straight away.'

Before his unveiling, Piranha sang Lay Me Down by Sam Smith and Jonathan said: 'I think that was the best performance, not just of this series but of any series.

'That was extraordinarily good.'

It comes after Cricket was the first celebrity to have their identity unveiled in the final of The Masked Singer UK.

McFly guitarist Danny, 37, was guessed correctly by panellist Davina McCall but she did not believe it was him

Referring to Danny's bandmates, guest panellist Rob Brydon told Danny: 'If we've learned anything, it's time to dump those losers and go it alone'

(L-R) The Masked Singer UK 2024 final judges Mo Gilligan, Davina McCall, Rob Brydon, Rita Ora and Jonathan Ross

The celebrity panel comprising Jonathan Ross, Davina McCall, Mo Gilligan and special guest panellist Rob Brydon all correctly guessed the individual to be singer Lemar.

On deciding to take part in the show, Lemar said: 'I'm a fan of the show. I like the show. I like the characters, I like the fun content of it.

'Once I realised I could be creative and do whatever songs I wanted, I thought yes lets jump straight in!

'I didn’t think I’d last that long (on the series) if I’m honest, maybe two or three weeks, but I managed to wiggle it through to the final.'

On performing as Cricket, he said: 'It's like an alter ego, you get to come out and be fun. You can interact with the kids in the audience. I had a lot of fun doing that.

'Luckily singing wasn’t too hard in the costume. It's quite an experience singing and doing certain notes with something right in front of your face so that was a challenge and the heat inside the costume was immense, but apart from that it was good fun!'

The contestants had kicked off the grand finale with a rendition of By Your Side by Calvin Harris featuring Tom Grennan.

Cricket was the first celebrity to sing solo on the final of the ITV1 reality competition, and performed A Thousand Miles by Vanessa Carlton.

The Masked Singer UK 's Cricket's identity was finally revealed as they finished in third place during Saturday's grand final

After weeks of speculation the talented singer beneath the mask turned out to be none other than Fame Academy's Lemar Obika, 45

Panellist Mo guessed that the singer behind the costume could be Lemar, and Rita and Jonathan agreed.

Bigfoot was the second contestant, and sang The One And Only by Chesney Hawkes.

Mo guessed the celebrity behind the mask could be Alex Brooker from The Last Leg, and Ross and McCall agreed.

Bigfoot was later unveiled as Alex, with the star beaming as he removed his huge mask and revealed the news would come as a huge shock to his daughters after keeping his involvement in the show a surprise.

Judge Davina McCall, who also co-hosted The Jump with Alex in 2014, had already put the clues together and guessed her pal's identity.

He said: 'It was just the most fun. I love the show, my daughters love this show, they've got no idea.'

'Girls, this is where daddy's been going all the time, this is why daddy's been singing in the car!'

On finishing runner-up Alex said: 'I can't believe it! I hoped maybe I’d get past one show. I loved singing "You're Welcome," from Moana. I thought that might get me through one show hopefully.

The Masked Singer UK 's Bigfoot was unveiled as Alex Brooker as he finished second during Saturday's finale - shortly before McFly's Danny Jones was crowned champion

The Last Leg star, 39, beamed as he removed his huge mask and revealed the news would come as a huge shock to his daughters after keeping his involvement in the show a surprise

'Then after that, never in a million years did I think I’d get this far. Even in the final, I thought I’d be third. It's been amazing.

'Obviously, I realise I’m not a professional singer as you definitely heard but I just wanted to have a good time and have the audience have a good time, that’s why I picked the songs I did.

'I love the show, my girls love the show. I wanted my girls to have a good time watching me.'

On making it to the final with BRIT Award winner Lemar who has also played at Glastonbury, Alex said: 'That’s absolutely crazy. I’m really proud of myself.

'When I watch the show, I know that in the previous series there are unbelievable singers. It’s been an absolute privilege.

'I love this show, I absolutely love it! To be a part of it this year, it’s the best thing I’ve done in telly, it’s amazing.'

In between performances, Doctor Who star David Tennant appeared via video to read a bedtime story laden with clues about the celebrity's identity.

The finalists were also joined by former contestants to perform duets during the show.

Judge Davina McCall , who also co-hosted The Jump with Alex in 2014 , had already put the clues together and guessed her pal's identity (pictured on The Jump)

Cricket performed Rewrite The Stars from The Greatest Showman with singer Charlotte Church, who had appeared on the show previously as Mushroom.

Bigfoot sang Dancing On The Ceiling by Lionel Richie alongside Kaiser Chiefs' frontman Ricky Wilson, who was dressed as Phoenix.

The last duet was between Piranha and singer Natalie Appleton, who sang Believe by Cher while dressed in her Fawn costume.

After this Cricket was unmasked following a public vote and Piranha and Bigfoot were told they would need to sing one last time in an attempt to win the competition.