A record number of passengers traveled through U.S. airports over Thanksgiving weekend, the Transportation Security Administration has revealed.

The TSA said it screened just over 2.9million passengers on Sunday, surpassing the previous record of 2.88million set on June 30.

That was 10 per cent more than the Sunday after Thanksgiving last year.

An astonishing image posted to X (formerly Twitter ) by flight-tracking site Flightradar24 shows the skies over the U.S jam-packed with planes.

Travel was relatively smooth despite the crowds.

An astonishing image posted to X (formerly Twitter ) by flight-tracking site Flightradar24 shows the skies over the U.S jam-packed with planes on the Sunday after Thanksgiving

Yesterday was the busiest day ever at airports in the US, with the @TSA reporting 2,884,783 people screened. It was also an incredibly smooth day of travel with fewer than one-half of one percent of 51,332 scheduled flights canceled. pic.twitter.com/6ZUVmaHyDR — Flightradar24 (@flightradar24) November 27, 2023

On Sunday, just 55 flights within, into or out of the U.S. were cancelled, according to FlightAware, a tracking service. That's fewer than one-half of one per cent of the 51,332 flights that operated.

Nearly 8,000 flights were delayed, including several hundred that were impacted by snow in Denver and Chicago.

Airline pilot Chris Pohl, posting about the record on Instagram, revealed further statistics – there were 56.2 people per flight (assuming one leg per person), 2,003 people screened per minute (120,199 per hour), 35 flights taking off per minute (every 1.7 secs), and zero accidents.

Airlines were eager to avoid the meltdowns that marred travel last December, when severe winter storms knocked out thousands of flights and left millions of passengers stranded.

The TSA said it screened just over 2.9million passengers on Sunday, surpassing the previous record of 2.88million set on June 30. Above - passengers at Miami International Airport

Southwest, which canceled nearly 17,000 flights last year, said it purchased additional deicing trucks and updated its crew-scheduling technology.

The airline was under particular scrutiny - the government recently threatened to fine Southwest for failing to provide enough help to passengers who were stranded last year.

The government also stepped up operations, hiring more air traffic controllers and opening new air routes along the East Coast ahead of the holiday travel season, U.S. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg said last week.