Eden Hazard has opened up about the one manager that he didn't like working under at Chelsea.

Hazard played for Chelsea between 2012 and 2019 and enjoyed plenty of success, winning a haul of trophies at Stamford Bridge.

The winger featured under various different managers including Jose Mourinho, Antonio Conte, Rafa Benitez, Maurizio Sarri, Roberto Di Matteo and Guus Hiddink.

Hazard revealed that despite his difficulties with the manager in question, the coach was also the one that got the best out of him during his time at Stamford Bridge.

Speaking on the Obi One Podcast with his former Chelsea team-mate John Obi Mikel, Hazard said: 'I think my best time at Chelsea was with Antonio Conte.

Eden Hazard has opened up on the coach that he didn't like working under at Chelsea

Mikel commented that Hazard didn't like training under Conte, and the Belgian concurred stating: 'Not at all'.

Hazard added that playing matches was the only time he could enjoy himself under Conte as it gave him a break from training.

Mikel and Hazard also recalled how Conte would frequently stop training sessions to give out tactical advice.

Hazard said: 'All the week training. I was going out Saturday, I need to enjoy a little bit because I know the day after is going to be back on the training ground. I have to do something, it's my only 90 minutes I can enjoy.

'You remember him, stopping, tactics, "no we have to do that". Saturday was the best day for me.'

Conte was in charge of Chelsea between 2016 and 2018, with the Blues winning the Premier League title in 2017 and the FA Cup in 2018.

In the 2016-17 season Hazard was named in the PFA team of the year and contributed with 16 league goals.

Hazard scored the only goal from the penalty spot as Chelsea beat Manchester United 1-0 in the FA Cup final in 2018.

Hazard didn't enjoy training under Antonio Conte but says the Italian got the best out of him

Conte was in charge of Chelsea between 2016 and 2018, with the Blues winning the Premier League title in 2017 and the FA Cup in 2018

In the 2018 FA Cup final Hazard scored the winner with a penalty against Manchester United

In total, Hazard played 94 games under Conte and scored 34 goals, while he provided 21 assists.

Despite winning the FA Cup in 2018, Conte was sacked by Chelsea after the club failed to qualify for the Champions League, with Maurizio Sarri replacing him.

Conte has subsequently managed Inter Milan and Tottenham.

Eden Hazard was speaking on the Obi One Podcast.