Florence Pugh suffered an awkward wardrobe mishap as she left the Dune Two afterparty at The Old Sessions House in London on Thursday night.

The actress, 28, accidentally had a nip slip in her custom backless Valentino sequin dress due to its perilous plunging neckline.

Anya Taylor-Joy, 27, also put on a daring display in her Christian Dior gown as she ditched the hooded sheer cape she wore to the premiere to reveal her racy dress underneath.

Both stars opted to go braless in the risqué dresses but it was Florence who struggled with her gown.

Florence plays Princess Irulan in the sci-fi film, while Anya has kept her role a secret as she said at the premiere: 'You'll have to see the film'.

Florence Pugh suffered an awkward wardrobe mishap as she left the Dune Two afterparty at The Old Sessions House in London on Thursday night

The actress, 28, accidentally had a nip slip in her custom backless Valentino sequin dress due to its perilous plunging neckline

The actresses were joined by Timothée Chalamet, 28, who plays the film's lead Paul Atreides, the duke of House Atreides.

Dressed in shiny fringed trousers and a simple black T-shirt, Timothée appeared in high spirits as he departed the bash.

Anya was joined by her husband Malcolm McRae, 29, who looked exhausted as they clambered into the back of their chauffeur driven car after partying the night away.

Kaia Gerber, meanwhile, joined her boyfriend Austin Butler in a rare public outing.

The 22-year-old model held hands with the Elvis actor, 32, as they made their way inside the star-studded soirée.

Kaia stunned in a sparkling brown maxi dress that clung to her supermodel physique.

She added height to her frame with silver heels, and accessorized with a gold clutch.

Kaia carried a fur coat under her arm in case the evening got chilly. Meanwhile Austin looked cool as ever in a low-cut white shirt under a black blazer and pants.

Earlier at the premiere, Austin gushed about Kaia's recent British Vogue cover, calling it 'legendary.'

Anya Taylor-Joy , 27, also put on a daring display in her Christian Dior gown as she ditched the hooded sheer cape she wore to the premiere to reveal her racy dress underneath

Despite the wardrobe mishap, Florence looked incredible in the dark brown shimmering gown that featured a plunging neckline and matching hood

Florence was pictured heading to the bash in the glittering gown

Both stars opted to go braless in the risque dresses but it was Florence who struggled with her gown

Florence held onto her sequin dress as she struggled with it staying in place

Florence dazzled in the hooded dark sequin gown, which she teamed with silver jewellery

Taylor's bespoke number had a plunging neckline and a full, pleated skirt

Anya was joined by her husband Malcolm McRae, 29, who looked exhausted as they clambered into the back of their chauffeur driven car after partying the night away

Anya Taylor-Joy took the plunge in the low-cut white gown as she posed for a photo inside The Old Sessions House

She accessorized with a number of rings

Austin is a newcomer and will play Feyd-Rautha Harkonnen, Baron Harkonnen’s young nephew, and planned successor as ruler of Arrakis.

He stars alongside A-listers including Zendaya, Timothée Chalamet and Florence Pugh, in the project.

'It's such a fun group of people in general that we have a lot of fun together. They're inspiring to me in many ways, so we all have fun together.'

Zendaya, 27, arrived to the bash in a slinky black dress, and her tresses slicked down in a wet look.

The actresses were joined by Timothée Chalamet, 28, who plays the film's lead

Dressed in shiny fringed trousers and a simple black T-shirt, Timothée appeared in high spirits as he departed the bash

Timothée flashed a smile as he left the party in the early hours

The actor posed for a photo inside the venue

Timothée plays the film's lead Paul Atreides, the duke of House Atreides

Kaia Gerber joined her boyfriend Austin Butler in a rare public outing

The 22-year-old model held hands with the Elvis actor, 32, as they made their way inside the star-studded soirée

Austin looked cool as ever in a low-cut white shirt under a black blazer and pants

Kaia stunned in a sparkling brown maxi dress that clung to her supermodel physique

The pair first sparked romance rumours in December 2021, before going public with their relationship in March 2022

Earlier at the premiere, Austin gushed about Kaia's recent British Vogue cover, calling it 'legendary'

'It was legendary,' Butler told ET. 'It was amazing. I loved getting to see that. What an exciting cover. I loved it'

Inside the event, Kaia showed off her outfit in front of the camera

Her brunette tresses were styled in light waves and she sported a bronzed tan

The actor was seen signing autographs on his way in

He happily interacted with fans

Butler is a newcomer to Dine 2, and will play Feyd-Rautha Harkonnen, Baron Harkonnen’s young nephew, and planned successor as ruler of Arrakis

Zendaya, 27, arrived to the bash in a slinky black dress, and her tresses slicked down in a wet look

She posed for snaps on her way to the bash

Supporting her inside was boyfriend Tom Holland, 27, though the private pair didn't pose for snaps together

Anya posed with Edgar Wright at the event

Zoe Zimmer, 36, was chic in a black gown with a sultry midriff mesh panel

She was pictured posing with her dad, iconic German film score composer and music producer Hans Zimmer, 66

(L-R) Dina de Luca, Hans, Zoe and Ryan Rubin

Tanya Lapointe wowed in a baby blue gown with a fringe, while Barbie filmmaker Greta Gerwig, 40, looked chic in a black coat and brown gown

Marc Jacques-Burton and Ella Mapes made a stylish duo at the party

(L-R) Jason McNab, Magdalena Sverlander, Marc and Ella

Producer Cale Boyter was accompanied by a stylish Cassandra Wilson

Swedish actor Stellan Skarsgard, 72, who plays Baron Harkonnen in the film, and director Denis Villeneuve, 56, both looked sharp in suits

Lea Seydoux, 38, was spotted arriving to the bash in a plaid jacket

The beauty paired her outfit with flower shaped diamond earrings and delicate glam.

She completed the look with black heels and a large green ring on her finger.

Supporting her inside was boyfriend Tom Holland, 27, though the private pair didn't pose for snaps together.

The Spider-Man: No Way Home star rocked a black vest over a black T-shirt and trousers.

Chalamet will be reprising his role as Paul Atreides, the heir to the now-decimated House Atreides, who has been abandoned with his mother on the desert world of Arakis while the members of House Harkonnen who are responsible for his family's slaughter take over the planet's lucrative natural resources.

Zendaya was introduced briefly in the first film as Chani, a member of the desert-dwelling Fremen tribe who will teach Paul how to survive in the punishing environment so that he can lead her people to rise up against the galactic forces colonizing their planet.

Dune: Part Two was originally meant to be released on October 20, 2023 before being pushed back to November 17, and later to March 15, 2024, due to the SAG-AFTRA actors' strike.

After multiple delays, the film is now set to hit theaters on March 1, 2024.

Dune: Part One and Part Two are based on Frank Herbert's novel of the same name, which was originally published in 1965.

Earlier at the premiere Zendaya commanded attention in a silver Thierry Mugler robot suit from his fall/winter 1995 Couture Collection

She was seen posing with Chalamet

Florence wowed in her gown

Austin looked dapper as ever