Naomi Campbell cut a sophisticated figure as she attended her BOSS Host Private Dinner With ELLE to celebrate the launch of her Naomi x BOSS collection on Saturday.

The supermodel, 53, kept it smart she donned a sheer black button up shirt dress and black oversized blazer for the star-studded evening.

Hiding behind a pair of dark shades, the fashion superstar accessorised the look with a chunky silver chain and silver pearl necklace as she added some sparkle to her look.

Beaming alongside Janet Jackson the pair looked to be having a wonderful evening at the private dinner as they each wore pieces from the collection.

The dinner was co-hosted by ELLE UK and its Editor-in-Chief Kenya Hunt at private members club The Twenty Two in Mayfair, London.

Naomi Campbell, 53, cut a sophisticated figure at her star-studded BOSS collection private dinner at The Twenty Two in Mayfair, London on Saturday

Beaming alongside Janet Jackson the pair looked to be having a wonderful evening at the private dinner as they each wore pieces from the collection

After the dinner, the stars were treated to an after-party at the same venue with an exclusive performance by BRIT-nominated artist Raye.

The venue was decorated with dramatic purple floral displays in a nod to Naomi’s favourite colour and inspired by design details from the collection.

While Naomi and Janet opted for all black, model Erin O'Connor opted for a smart white shirt, buttoned to the top, and oversized white blazer jacket which ran past her knees.

Pairing the look with some black trousers and open toed shows, the 46-year-old struck a stern expression as she posed for snaps.

Meanwhile singer Raye looked sensational as she wowed in a gorgeous silk green dress.

The hitmaker, 26, showed off her ample cleavage in the strappy dress which she paired with some simple black heels.

Popstar Griff cut an elegant figure in a beautiful white lace dress which she paired with a cream cardigan and bejewelled heeled Crocs.

Model Amelia Gray Hamlin put on a striking display in a black sparkle flecked leather dress and burgundy heels.

The supermodel kept it smart for the evening as she donned a sheer black button up shirt dress and black oversized blazer for the star-studded evening

Janet piled her braids in a high bun on top of her head as she donned all black to the dinner

While Naomi and Janet opted for all black, model Erin O'Connor, 46, opted for a smart white shirt, buttoned to the top, and oversized white blazer jacket which ran past her knees

The hitmaker showed off her ample cleavage in the strappy dress which she paired with some simple black heels

Naomi, Raye and Janet posed for a snap together

Popstar Griff cut an elegant figure in a beautiful white lace dress which she paired with a cream cardigan and bejewelled heeled Crocs

Model Amelia Gray Hamlin put on a striking display in a black sparkle flecked leather dress and burgundy heels

Naomi flashed her black bra as she posed beside Editor-in-Chief of ELLE UK Kenya Hunt

Raye looked delighted as she smiled with Janet, 57

Erin O'Connor was seated beside singer-songwriter Kim Petras

Model Ella Richards donned a black suit jacket for the event

BOSS Creative Director Marco Falcioni also enjoyed the evening

Earlier in the day Naomi attended a Naomi x BOSS pop-up event at Selfridges in London

Earlier in the day Naomi attended a Naomi x BOSS pop-up event at Selfridges in London.

The star teased a glimpse of a black bustier beneath an oversized grey suit from her range which boasted a double-breasted blazer and wide-legged trousers.

Naomi layered the look over a matching pin-striped waistcoat and added extra height to her frame with a pair of pointed heels.

The stunner sported a glamorous palette of make-up for the event and accessorised her stylish look with simple jewellery.

Naomi attended alongside BOSS Creative Director Marco Falcioni as they cast their eye over the swanky collection.

Later in the night Naomi changed into trainers to head home from the event

Janet was sheltered from the rain by an assistant holding an umbrella as she headed home

Amelia Gray Hamlin clutched a copy of Vogue as she left the event

Erin O'Connor looked in good spirits as she made her way back from the soiree