A man has been charged after allegedly keying six luxury cars in shopping centre car parks and causing more than $10,000 in damage.

The 34-year-old was arrested at a shopping centre in Schofields, in Sydney's north-west, on Sunday night after a member of the public called police.

Three Teslas, an Audi, Mercedes and a Golf were allegedly keyed in January and February this year while parked in centres around Rouse Hill, Box Hill and Schofields.

During his arrest, the man allegedly had a three-bladed metal multi-tool with him.

Shocking footage from the security system on one of the Teslas caught the man allegedly carrying out the act.

The 34-year-old was arrested at a shopping centre in Schofields, in Sydney's northwest after he allegedly keyed six cars

Video showed the man walking past the cars while allegedly dragging the tool along the side of the vehicle before checking behind him to see if anyone is watching.

He is now facing six counts of malicious damage, and one count of custody of an offensive implement in a public place.

The 34-year-old spent the night in custody and is due to appear in Blacktown Local Court on Monday.

Inquiries are continuing.

It comes after 70-year-old Raymond Edwards and his wife Barbara were caught keying a Tesla in the Brookside Shopping Centre in Brisbane's inner north last October.

Standing outside his home last month, Mr Edwards told Daily Mail Australia he and Barbara had let frustration get the better of them after they were 'cut off' and almost forced into a power pole by a white Tesla and white BMW about 800m from the shops.

Shocking footage allegedly showed the man keying one car before he was arrested and charged

The couple then tried to get their revenge - but were caught out by the Tesla's sentry mode, which records threats on video. They were also seen keying the BMW.

Mr Edwards admitted keying the cars was the wrong decision before launching into a tirade about the behaviour of motorists.

He also declared that he'd never own an electric vehicle and would 'stand there and clap' if he ever saw a Tesla on fire at the roadside.

'I regret our actions, but the thing is, courtesy has been thrown out the window and stupidity has been thrown in,' Mr Edwards said.

Mr Edwards was ordered to pay $2,443.61 in restitution for the damage caused to the Tesla and the BMW, while Mrs Edwards was ordered to pay the remaining $897.25 for Tesla repair work.