By the 53rd year of her reign, Queen Victoria had acquired 38 living grandchildren – and it became her hobby to marry them off in a series of dynastic alliances designed to strengthen Britain's place in the world.

Like some glorified puppet-master, she encouraged romance between her young relations. And, if the romance didn't work out – well, let them marry anyway!

What's love got to do with it?

You might call it the world's most exclusive dating agency, the only condition for entry being that you had to be royal.

But as with all such enterprises, Victoria had more than her fair share of disasters.

Queen Victoria with some of her vast extended family. She would eventually have 38 living grandchildren

Prince Albert Victor, elder son of EdwardV II and grandson of Queen Victoria, photographed with his fiancee, Princess Victoria Mary of Teck. Albert Victor would die in 1892 before they could be married

The wedding of George V - Albert Victor's younger brother - and Princess Mary of Teck in the Chapel Royal at St James's Palace in 1893

Princess Mary of Teck photographed around 1895. She would eventually be Queen Consort to King George V

Her prime concern in the early days was in getting her grandson Eddy fixed up. The son and heir of of Bertie, who'd become King Edward VII, Eddy was more formally known as Prince Albert Victor.

He was bisexual.

So worried were the royals about Eddy's disastrous involvement in the Cleveland Street Scandal - which involved Post Office telegram messengers doubling as rent boys - that the future king was 'coerced' into marrying the staid Princess Mary of Teck.

He'd already got into hot water over one scandal involving the death of a chorus-girl and another over his relationship with a blackmailer, Maude Richardson.

By his own confession he was the carrier of a sexually transmitted disease.

Mary, keen to please, was either ignorant of this exotic lifestyle or was prepared to ignore it and stepped up to the mark when an arranged marriage was mooted.

Eddy didn't want to wed but, under huge pressure, reluctantly agreed to propose.

Only his sudden death at the age of 28 from pneumonia brought to an end the subterfuge. Mary went off and married his kid brother George instead.

Then there was Princess Elisabeth of Hesse, daughter of Victoria's third child Princess Alice.

It looked like a great match when she became engaged to Grand Duke Sergei Romanoff of the Russian imperial family but it was a disaster from the start.

Her supposedly devoted husband was having affairs with junior officers in his regiment.

Princess Elisabeth of Hesse, granddaughter of Victoria, became Grand Duchess Elisabeth of Russia

Princess Elisabeth of Hesse with husband Grand Duke Sergei Alexandrovich of Russia

Princess Elisabeth of Hess, pictured, established her own convent in Moscow dedicated to the Order of Martha and Mary following the assassination of her husband, Grand Prince Sergei

Bravely she pretended to the family back home that all was well but Victoria got the picture: 'When people are very happy they don't require to tell others of it.'

Elisabeth became a nun. So that was another fail.

Just as disastrous was the so-called love-match between Victoria's grand-daughter Princess Marie of Edinburgh and King Ferdinand of Romania.

Marie, known as Missy, was a headstrong girl of great beauty who, aged 16, turned down the marriage proposal of her cousin George, who went on to become King George V

Queen Victoria had given her blessing to the romance but later wrote, 'George lost Missy by waiting and waiting.'

Even so, before she'd reached her 17th birthday she was engaged to the characterless Ferdinand.

It was no love-match, particularly in the bedroom - 'A cruel trapping of innocence,' Missy described it.

And to her husband she wrote: 'It's a shame we had to waste so many years of our youth just learning how to live together.'

Nonetheless the couple had children – though when she asked for chloroform to ease the pain of the first birth, it was denied by her Romanian doctors, who declared 'women must pay in agony for the sins of Eve'.

Missy took her revenge with a string of lovers including the country's prime minster, a swashbuckling Canadian adventurer named 'Klondike' Joe Boyle, and the owner of The Observer, Lord Astor.

She became a formidable spokesperson for her adopted country and despite its remoteness, became world-famous and was immortalised by the American wit Dorothy Parker, who quipped:

Oh, life is a glorious cycle of song, A medley of extemporanea; And love is a thing that can never go wrong; And I am Marie of Roumania.

Marie, known as Missy, was a headstrong girl of great beauty who, aged 16, turned down the marriage proposal of her cousin George, who went on to become King George V

The 1893 wedding of Princess Marie of Edinburgh and Prince Ferdinand of Romania at Sigmaringen in southern Germany

Things didn't start too well for Princess Victoria Eugenie and her by-arrangement marriage to King Alfonso of Spain in Madrid.

Someone threw a bomb disguised as a bridal bouquet into her open carriage and though she was unhurt, 15 others died and many more were injured.

Her wedding dress was spattered with the blood of a mounted guard riding beside the carriage.

By way of introduction to her magnificent royal future, 18-year old Victoria Eugenie, known as Ena, had enjoyed - if that's the word - a chaperoned, three-day romance with Alfonso at a secret location on the Spanish border before he took her home to meet his mum.

Things went well enough for an engagement to be announced but only after Ena agreed to convert to Roman Catholicism.

That decision cost her her place in the order of succession to the British throne - but since she was about to become Queen Ena of Spain, it hardly mattered.

Sadly things in the marriage quickly went downhill after she gave birth to her first child, who was discovered to be haemophiliac.

The royal wedding of King Alfonso and Queen Victoria Eugenie in Madrid got off to a catastrophic start - with an assassination attempt

This condition, sometimes known as the royal disease, so spooked Alfonso that although the couple went on to have five more children he became a serial philanderer.

And when General Franco declared Spain a republic in 1931, the couple escaped the country – and parted for ever.

There would be many more disasters – and a few successes – to flow from Queen Victoria's exclusive marriage bureau.

It took a while for Europe to recover.