Extra police and emergency resources are being added as a major search was today renewed for a boy, two, who fell into a river on a day out with family - amid fears rising water levels could hamper the mission.

Leicestershire Police revealed they were stepping up their hunt for the missing toddler who went into the River Soar in Braunstone at about 5pm yesterday.

Flooding and rising tides in the area have intensified concerns for the youngster, who had been enjoying a day out with his family in the Leicestershire town.

A man was last night taken to hospital as a precaution, while a drone was seen in the air as part of search efforts.

Police and fire crews called off their hunt for the child at about 9.30pm but officers remained close to the scene overnight, ready to act on any new information.

Flooding and rising tides in the area have intensified concerns for the youngster in Leicester

Officers were hunting for a two-year-old boy who went into the River Soar at 5pm on Sunday

Leicestershire Police revealed they were stepping up their hunt for the missing toddler

Police and fire crews called off their hunt for the child at about 9.30pm yesterday but have begun again this morning

The search is resuming today, with a Leicestershire Police spokeswoman telling MailOnline this morning: 'The operation continued throughout the night and additional resources will be going out to the scene this morning.

'The fire service came away at half past nine last night but police officers remained in the vicinity and were monitoring any information coming in and resources were ready to go out and respond if needed.

'There are rising water levels in the area, and flooding, and we're going to be bringing in additional resources today to assist with that.

A police helicopter was seen searching the river at about 5.40pm yesterday, later replaced with a drone.

The helicopter then returned at 6.40pm after refuelling and was lighting up the search area.

The road between Braunstone Lane East and Middleton Street remained closed.

Local man Adam, who did not want to give his surname, was with his daughter on their bikes nearby.

He told the BBC: 'We usually ride along the river by Aylestone Meadows but the police told us not to go tonight when we went down there.

'The parents must be absolutely beside themselves.'

A search operation underway on the River Soar in Leicester following reports that a two-year-old boy fell in

Police are concerned about rising water levels in the area and flooding as they carry on search

Police are continuing a major search operation after a child fell into Leicestershire's River Soar, with officers and emergency services on the scene. Pictured last night

A police helicopter was sighted searching the river in Braunstone, Leicestershire, at about 5.40pm on Sunday - later replaced with a drone

The helicopter returned at 6.40pm after refuelling and was seen lighting up the search area

Police have said the search was resuming on Monday morning, with additional resources

The force said that 'despite the best efforts of those at the scene', the toddler has not been found - while also confirming a man has been taken to hospital as a precaution

A statement released by the police last night said: 'Earlier this evening (Sunday 18 February) officers were called to the River Soar in Leicester after reports of a child falling into the water.

'The child, a two-year-old boy, was with family when he fell into the river, sadly despite the best efforts of those at the scene at the time the child was not located.

'Emergency services attended the scene just after 5pm and a search and rescue operation began in Aylestone Meadows, close to Marsden Lane.

'A man was taken to hospital as a precautionary measure.

'The child’s family are being supported by specialist officers and our thoughts are with them at this extremely difficult time.

'We have had a number of offers of support to assist with the search and would kindly ask that people do not attend the scene due to rising water levels and safety risks.

'If anyone has any information or comes across anything that may assist officers, they are asked to contact us immediately.

'Specialist teams are on standby to respond to any information received.'

A spokesperson for the fire and rescue service said: 'This is a police-led incident. We can confirm we were alerted at 17:05 and still have water rescue teams at the scene.'