Florence Pugh dazzled in a glamorous white dress as she attended Netflix's BAFTAs 2024 afterparty at the Chiltern Firehouse, London on Sunday evening.

The Dune star, 28, led the stars in attendance at the star-studded bash and was joined by the gorgeous Hannah Waddingham, 49, and Rosamund Pike, 45.

Florence exuded elegance in the semi-sheer lace dress and shielded her shoulders with a dramatic white feather boa.

As she arrived at the popular celebrity hotspot, where the afterparty was hosted, Florence turned heads in her stylish white gown.

She elevated her frame with strappy white high-heels and showed off her chest in the incredibly flattering, low-cut ensemble.

Florence Pugh dazzled in a glamorous white dress as she attended Netflix 's BAFTAs 2024 afterparty at the Chiltern Firehouse, London on Sunday evening

The Dune star, 28, led the stars in attendance at the star-studded bash and was joined by the gorgeous Hannah Waddingham , 49, (left)and Rosamund Pike, 45, (right)

Meanwhile, Hannah oozed glamour in a simplistic black velour dress as she posed up a storm inside the party.

The actress and TV presenter flaunted her slender physique in the bodycon midi dress and elevated her height with stylish black court heels.

Hannah accentuated her gorgeous frame in the gold-buckled halterneck top and slicked her tresses back in a high bun.

Rosamund, who played Elspeth Catton in the hit Saltburn, arrived to the afterparty in a statement see-through gown, flashing her racy underwear underneath.

The quirky garment was adorned with graphic green animals which were stitched on the hem of the gown.

The actress posed for a photo with her fellow Saltburn co-star Paul Rhys - who played the family's butler Duncan in the movie.

Elsewhere at the party, Sabrina Elba and her famed husband Idris looked more than loved-up.

Bradley Cooper was all smiles in her dapper black ensemble as he met up with Keegan-Michael Key for a snap.

Florence exuded elegance in the semi-sheer lace dress and shielded her shoulders with a dramatic white feather boa

She elevated her frame with strappy white high-heels and showed off her chest in the incredibly flattering, low-cut ensemble

As she arrived at the popular celebrity hotspot, where the afterparty was hosted, Florence turned heads in her stylish white gown

Meanwhile, Hannah oozed glamour in a simplistic black velour dress as she posed up a storm inside the party

The actress and TV presenter flaunted her slender physique in the bodycon midi dress and elevated her height with stylish black court heels

Hannah accentuated her gorgeous frame in the gold-buckled halterneck top and slicked her tresses back in a high bun

Rosamund, who played Elspeth Catton in the hit Saltburn, arrived to the afterparty in a statement see-through gown, flashing her racy underwear underneath

The quirky garment was adorned with graphic green animals which were stitched on the hem of the gown

The actress posed for a photo with her fellow Saltburn co-star Paul Rhys (pictured) - who played the family's butler Duncan in the movie

The duo shared a sweet moment as they spotted each other at the event

Rosamund couldn't wipe the smile off her face as she posed at the star-studded afterparty bash

She covered her modesty through a daring sheer garment and wore stylish silver heels

Elsewhere at the party, Sabrina Elba and her famous actor husband Idris looked more than loved-up

The happily married couple looked more than loved-up as they posed for a photo together arm-in-arm

Sabrina looked radiant in a glamorous satin white gown with a stylish statement red bow tied onto her strap

Bradley Cooper looked smart in a double-breasted over coat as he made his way into the afterparty

Bradley Cooper was all smiles in her dapper black ensemble as he met up with Keegan-Michael Key for a snap

Charlotte Colbert, Martin Aleman and Emma Mackey (L-R) had a photo together in the midst of their conversation

Lady Mary Charteris, 36, cut a glamorous display as she slipped into a one-shoulder satin mini dress with a flowing front train

Lottie Moss looked stylish in a black and white pinstripe gown and went for a dramatic black eye-liner

Saltburn actress Alison Oliver stole the show in a jaw-dropping strapless red gown, teamed with glitzy silver heels

Kaya Scodelario put on a busty display in a strapless corset-style silver gown

Samantha Morton, who received an iconic Fellowship Award at the 2024 BAFTAs, enjoyed a night of celebrations

Lily James and Samantha Morton were all smiles as they joined for a photo inside the star-studded bash

Normal People actor Paul Mescal looked incredibly handsome in a dapper off-white satin shirt and black trousers

He looked in great spirits as he mingled with the biggest stars in film history for the night

Andrew Scott and Eleanor Tomlinson chatted away at the afterparty and beamed for a photo together

Saltburn actress Alison Oliver stole the show in a jaw-dropping strapless red gown, teamed with glitzy silver heels.

Lady Mary Charteris, 36, cut a glamorous display as she slipped into a one-shoulder satin mini dress with a flowing front train.

Lottie Moss looked stylish in a black and white pinstripe gown and went for a dramatic black eye-liner.

Kaya Scodelario put on a busty display in a strapless corset-style silver gown for the afterparty.

Samantha Morton, who received an iconic Fellowship Award at the 2024 BAFTAs, enjoyed a night of celebrations.

Lily James and Samantha were all smiles as they joined for a photo inside the star-studded bash.

Normal People actor Paul Mescal looked incredibly handsome in a dapper off-white satin shirt and black trousers.

Andrew Scott and Eleanor Tomlinson chatted away at the afterparty and beamed for a photo together.

Brigerton's Regé-Jean Page sultry posed on the side of the door for a photo

He cut a casual, but stylish display in a black velour suit over a black T-shirt

Strictly Come Dancing's Layton Williams struck a pose at the Netflix bash

Sophie Ellis-Bextor shined in a bejewelled green mini dress and upped up the ante with silver blocky heels

One Day star Eleanor Tomlinson put on a leggy display in a chic black mini dress and opaque tights

Andrew Scott was the man of the hour in his smart red suit, teamed with matching trendy shoes

(L-R) Andrew Scott, Emma Stone and Paul Mescal couldn't wipe the smile off their faces as they celebrated Emma's victory win

Andrew looked incredible in his statement red suit as he posed with Paul

Michael Braun, Anya Taylor-Joy and Hannah Waddingham met inside the venue

Charli XCX exuded glamour in a black and white checkered dress and elevated her frame with black court heels as she made her way into the event

Talia Storm put on a risqué display in a racy semi-sheer glitzy gown and flashed her legs through the thigh-high split cut-out

Dua Lipa made her way into the BAFTA afterparty following the star-studded ceremony earlier in the night

Model Kaia Gerber opted for a striking look as she headed out in a dazzling strapless metallic gown

Vas J Morgan wowed in a satin silver suit as he posed inside the venue

Phoebe Dynevor looked impeccable as she strutted into event wearing a glamorous black gown

Bridgerton's Luke Newton posed with his hands behind his back in a dapper grey suit

Sex Education's Asa Butterfield looked trendy in a grey oversized suit

The biggest night in British film returned with actor David Tennant as host and an array of guest presenters on hand to deliver awards throughout the night.

Prince William attended the ceremony in London solo as his wife Kate Middleton continues her recovery from last month's abdominal surgery.

Oppenheimer won Best Film as well as sweeping the board in the major categories at the EE BAFTA Film Awards at The Royal Festival Hall.

The epic biographical thriller led the wins with seven gongs, including Best Actor for Cillian Murphy, Best Supporting Actor for Robert Downey Jr. and Best Director for Christopher Nolan. It had the most nominations with 13.

Murphy, 47 - who plays the titular role in Nolan's atomic bomb saga - picked up the prize at the prestigious awards ceremony.

He triumphed against Bradley Cooper for Maestro, Colman Domingo for Rustin, Paul Giamatti for The Holdovers, Barry Keoghan for Saltburn and Teo Yoo for Past Lives.