Kemi Badenoch has accused the former chairman of the Post Office of lying in a deepening row over payments to sub-postmasters falsely accused of criminality in the Horizon scandal.

The Business Secretary furiously denounced Henry Staunton on X last night over claims he made in a newspaper interview about his time in the role.

Mr Staunton, who took up the role in December 2022 following nine years as chairman of WH Smith, suggested that Whitehall wanted to hold back compensation payments for those affected, to help the Tories ahead of the election.

He also said that when Ms Badenoch sacked him in the wake of anger over the scandal she told him: 'Well, someone's got to take the rap for this.'

But last night the combative minister - a leading candidate to be the next Tory leader - accused him of putting across 'made up anecdotes and a series of falsehoods'.

Ms Badenoch is expected to address MPs in the Commons on the issue this afternoon, amid calls for the government to release documents relating to the payout.

The Business Secretary furiously denounced Henry Staunton on X last night, accusing him of a 'lies' in an interview with the Sunday Times.

Mr Staunton, who took up the role in December 2022 following nine years as chairman of WH Smith, suggested that Whitehall wanted to hold back compensation payments for those affected, ahead of the election.

Ms Badenoch will address MPs on the issue this afternoon following her weekend social media attack, in which she accused him of 'disgraceful misrepresentation' of the reasons he was ousted.

More than 700 branch managers were prosecuted by the Post Office between 1999 and 2015 after faulty Horizon accounting software made it look as though money was missing from their shops.

Hundreds of sub-postmasters and subpostmistresses are still awaiting compensation despite the Government announcing that those who have had convictions quashed are eligible for £600,000 payouts.

Mr Staunton, who was sacked by the Business Secretary last month, used the interview with the Sunday Times to suggest that the alleged request was linked to concerns about the cost of compensation heading into the election.

He also told the paper that Ms Badenoch told him that 'someone's got to take the rap' for the Horizon scandal and that he discovered his sacking following a phone call from Sky News.

The claims prompted an immediate and strongly worded denial from the Government, with Ms Badenoch also using social media to accuse the former chairman Mr Staunton, who took up the role in December 2022 following nine years as chairman of WH Smith, had told the newspaper: 'Early on, I was told by a fairly senior person to stall on spend on compensation and on the replacement of Horizon and to limp, in quotation marks - I did a file note on it - limp into the election.

'It was not an anti-postmaster thing, it was just straight financials. I didn't ask, because I said 'I'm having no part of it - I'm not here to limp into the election, it's not the right thing to do by postmasters'.

'The word 'limp' gives you a snapshot of where they were.'

Ms Badenoch, in a lengthy post on X, said the comments were a 'disgraceful misrepresentation of my conversation with him and the reasons for his dismissal.

'Henry Staunton had a lack of grip getting justice for postmasters. The serious concerns over his conduct were the reasons I asked him to step down.

'That he chose to run to the media with made up anecdotes and a series of falsehoods, confirms I made the correct decision.'

She said her call with Mr Staunton 'was with officials' who took a 'complete record'.

'He has given an interview full of lies about our conversation during his dismissal.

'The details will emerge soon enough as I won't let the matter rest here, but will be discussing with (government) lawyers,' she said.

Ms Badenoch is expected to make a Commons statement about the matter on Monday.

The scandal has been pushed into the public eye by a major ITV drama into the long legal fight by sub-postmasters to get justice.

But many, including leading campaigner Alan Bates, have complained about unnecessary delays to victims in receiving compensation.

Home Office minister Michael Tomlinson on Sunday also firmly denied Mr Staunton's claim.

And a Government spokesman said: 'We utterly refute these allegations.

'The Government has sped up compensation to victims and consistently encouraged postmasters to come forward with their claims.

'To suggest any actions or conversations happened to the contrary is incorrect. In fact, upon appointment, Mr Staunton was set concrete objectives, in writing, to focus on reaching settlements with claimants - clear evidence of the Government's intent.

'The Secretary of State asked Henry Staunton to step down as chairman of the Post Office because a change in leadership was needed.'

Liberal Democrat Treasury spokeswoman Sarah Olney said: 'The government must be fully transparent and publish any documents relating to these extremely serious allegations. It would be an utter disgrace if ministers and officials had decided to stall justice and compensation for the victims of the Horizon scandal for political reasons.

'Ministers have been dragging their feet over getting victims swift and fair compensation for far too long. Political game playing should have absolutely no role in trying to right this wrong, we need to get the victims of this scandal the justice and compensation they deserve.'

The Post Office and the UK Government Investments (UKGI) body also rejected any suggestion that either organisation had opposed a blanket exoneration for sub-postmasters, after other claims by Mr Staunton to the newspaper.

A spokesman said: 'Post Office is very aware of the terrible impact from this appalling scandal and miscarriage of justice.

'We refute both the assertions put to us and the words and phrases allegedly used, and are focused on supporting the Government's plans for faster justice and redress for victims, as well as helping the inquiry get to the truth of what happened.

'In no sense did Post Office seek to persuade Government against mass exoneration, we remain firmly committed to supporting faster justice and redress for victims.'

A UKGI spokesman said: 'We strongly refute the claims levelled by Mr Staunton, both in the facts presented and the suggestions made as to UKGI's overall role.'