Investment house Asset Value Investors is on a bit of a roll. Investments under management have topped £1.5 billion, the team is in expansion mode, and this month it will launch a new fund investing globally.

Joe Bauernfreund, chief executive and chief investment officer, is modest about the business's success. 'We just let the performance numbers talk,' he says. 'We have an investment team of 14, compared to the three we had when I took over in 2015.

'We do all our own research and we fish in an investment pond that is very much under-researched. We like to know the companies we invest in like no other shareholder.'

The group's flagship is AVI Global Trust, a £1billion fund listed on the UK stock market.

Over the past year, it has generated a return of 14 per cent for shareholders. Over five years, the record is even more impressive, both relatively and absolutely. A return of 75 per cent compares with an average for its global peer group of 31 per cent.

The investment approach adopted by Asset Value Investors is somewhat idiosyncratic.

It seeks out investments which it believes are chronically undervalued – and then, often through engaging with the management of the companies concerned, waits for them to realise their full potential. It does this in various ways.

For example, it often buys investment trusts where the share prices do not reflect the value of their underlying assets – in anticipation of that valuation gap closing, generating a return as the discount between the share price and asset value narrows.

It will also buy holding companies, often family controlled, where the businesses they own are not fully reflected in their share prices.

Finally, it will agitate for businesses to make changes that will result in an uplift in their share price – an investment method that has proved successful in Japan, where corporate governance has not always been a priority for management.

'Last year, we were working against a volatile backdrop,' says Bauernfreund. 'Volatile on many levels – economically, financially and geopolitically. From an investment point of view, it provided us with plenty of opportunities.'

Among the 28 named holdings is a stake made 15 months ago in Japanese company Nihon Kohden, a manufacturer of bedside monitors for hospital patients.

'It's a good business,' says Bauernfreund, 'which, when we bought it, was undervalued compared to peers. One of the issues we had was that senior management were being paid too much, resulting in a lower profit margin than it should have had.'

Through engaging with Nihon's management and suggesting possible improvements to the way the business is run, the company has become far more shareholder focused.

Over the past year, the firm's share price is up more than 30 per cent. 'The rerating of the company's share price has begun,' says Bauernfreund.

Other key holdings include French luxury fashion group Christian Dior, which in turn has a significant holding in LVMH.

The trust bought the stake during lockdown in 2020 when Christian Dior's shares were depressed. Strong fourth-quarter sales figures in 2023, which LVMH reported late last month, caused Christian Dior's share price to surge. 'There is more upside to come,' says Bauernfreund. The trust also has stakes in several listed private equity investment funds.

The trust's unusual modus operandi makes it an ideal candidate as a portfolio diversifier. Annual charges total 1.22 per cent and although dividends are not a priority, it has paid 3.7 pence of income to shareholders over the past year. The shares trade at about £2.26. The ID code is BLH3CY6 and the ticker AGT.