Barbie, Killers Of The Flower Moon and Saltburn were all left empty handed at the 2024 British Academy Film Awards following Sunday's glitzy ceremony.

The record-breaking blockbuster, directed by Greta Gerwig, was the highest-grossing film of 2023, but despite a string of nominations, failed to win a single one.

Star Margot Robbie lost out on the Leading Actress prize to Poor Things' Emma Stone, while the screenplay by director Greta and her husband Noah Baumbach lost out to courtroom drama Anatomy Of A Fall, by Justine Triet and Arthur Harari.

Ryan Gosling's Ken was defeated in the Supporting Actor category by Robert Downey Jr for Oppenheimer.

Gerwig was a conspicuous absence from the directing contenders when the nominees were announced.

Barbie, Killers Of The Flower Moon and Saltburn were all left empty handed at the 2024 British Academy Film Awards following Sunday's ceremony (Margot Robbie is pictured)

The record-breaking blockbuster, directed by Greta Gerwig, was the highest-grossing film of 2023, but despite a string of nominations, failed to win a single one

Killers Of The Flower Moon, Martin Scorsese's western crime epic, also left with nothing, despite nods for Best Film, Best Supporting Actor for Robert De Niro and a number of technical categories.

Maestro also headed home without a win, despite nods for Leading Actor (Bradley Cooper), Supporting Actress (Carey Mulligan), Director (Bradley Cooper) and Original Screenplay.

Meanwhile Saltburn failed to translate its viral success into awards gold.

The film about a student at Oxford who becomes enthralled by a wealthier classmate and spends a summer at his sprawling estate, has become an internet sensation.

But sadly it failed to land a single award, despite nods for Outstanding British Film, Leading Actor Barry Keoghan, Supporting Actress Rosamund Pike, Supporting Actor Jacob Elordi and the film's score.

However, the film did get a moment in the spotlight, thanks to a performance of Murder On The Dancefloor by Sophie Ellis-Bextor.

The song, released 22 years ago, had a scene-stealing moment in the final stages of the film and has since re-entered the charts.

Ellis-Bextor was joined by a team of dancers in sequins as she took to the stage in a dramatic black and orange gown with a full skirt as she performed the disco hit.

Meanwhile Saltburn failed to translate its viral success into awards gold, missing out on a single prize despite a string of nods (star Barry Keoghan is pictured)

THE BAFTA WINNERS AT A GLANCE Best Film - Oppenheimer Best Director - Christopher Nolan, Oppenheimer Supporting Actor - Robert Downey Jr, Oppenheimer Leading Actor - Cillian Murphy, Oppenheimer Leading Actress - Emma Stone, Poor Things Supporting Actress - Da'vine Joy Randolph, The Holdovers Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

However, the film did get a moment in the spotlight, thanks to a performance of Murder On The Dancefloor by Sophie Ellis-Bextor

Killers Of The Flower Moon, Martin Scorsese 's western crime epic, also left with nothing, despite nods for Best Film, Best Supporting Actor

Maestro also headed home without a win, despite nods for Leading Actor (Bradley Cooper), Supporting Actress (Carey Mulligan), Director (Bradley Cooper) and Original Screenplay

Oppenheimer proved to be the big winner on the night, earning seven gongs including Best Film, Supporting Actor for Robert Downey Jr and Director for Christopher Nolan.

Prince William attended the ceremony in London solo as his wife Kate Middleton continues her recovery from last month's abdominal surgery.

Oppenheimer swept up in the big name categories, but it was closely followed by the surreal black comedy Poor Things.

It marked five awards for the film, as Emma Stone collected the Best Actress gong for her turn as Bella Baxter.

After Oppenheimer was awarded Best Film, director Christopher Nolan and his wife Emma Thomas, who also produced the blockbuster, took to the stage.

Emma described her husband, as 'inspired and inspiring' and 'brilliant', adding that he was 'often infuriating and always right.'

'I am incredibly grateful to him for letting me come along for this ride,' she said.

Emma also paid tribute to their 16-year-old son Magnus, saying: 'Your dad and I are the luckiest people in the world but our greatest fortune is being parents to you, Flora, Oliver and Rory.'

Cillian, 47, - who plays the titular role in Christopher Nolan's atomic bomb saga - picked up the Leading Actor prize at the prestigious British awards ceremony.

He triumphed against Bradley Cooper for Maestro, Colman Domingo for Rustin, Paul Giamatti for The Holdovers, Barry Keoghan for Saltburn and Teo Yoo for Past Lives.

Robert, 58, collected a BAFTA for his role as Lewis Strauss in Hollywood blockbuster Oppenheimer, which has swept the board during awards season.

Robert's win set a new record for the longest gap between wins by any performer.

His award, for the film Oppenheimer, comes 31 years after his previous BAFTA, for the 1993 film Chaplin.

Nolan won the Best Director BAFTA for Oppenheimer, his epic tale of how the nuclear bomb was created.

Nolan has previously lost out despite numerous commercial successes such as Inception and The Dark Knight, the UK-born filmmaker won out against Jonathan Glazer [The Zone of Interest], Justine Triet [Anatomy of a Fall], Alexander Payne [The Holdovers], Bradley Cooper [Maestro] and Andrew Haigh [All of Us Strangers].

Oppenheimer swept up in the big name categories, but it was closely followed by the surreal black comedy Poor Things.

It marked five awards for the film, as Emma Stone collected the gong for her turn as Bella Baxter.

Meanwhile, Da'Vine Joy Randolph crowned victorious in the Best Supporting Actress category for her part in The Holdovers as she continues her march to Oscars glory.

Next up, Director Jonathan Glazer and producer James Wilson's The Zone Of Interest won the BAFTA for Outstanding British Film.

The night kicked off with French legal drama Anatomy Of A Fall winning the Original Screenplay award after premiering in Cannes back in May.

Next up, Poor Things has won the BAFTA for special visual effects.

Following this, drama film Earth Mama was honoured with the BAFTA outstanding debut by a British writer, director or producer, presented by David Beckham.

The Zone Of Interest won the BAFTA for a film not in the English language.

The BAFTA for Casting was awarded to Susan Shopmaker for private school-set The Holdovers, while the editing award has gone to Jennifer Lame for Second World War biopic Oppenheimer.

Comedy drama American Fiction won Best Adapted Screenplay.

The Documentary BAFTA went to 20 Days In Mariupol, which highlights the work of Associated Press journalists in the besieged Ukrainian city during the Russian invasion.

Composer Ludwig Goransson won the BAFTA for Original Score for Oppenheimer while Johnnie Burn and Tarn Willers scooped the honour for best sound for Holocaust film The Zone Of Interest.

The BAFTA for Production Design went to Shona Heath, James Price and Zsuzsa Mihalek for surreal comedy Poor Things, about a woman who is reanimated and begins a new life.

It was a night of huge success for Oppenheimer, with Cillian Murphy (left) awarded the Leading Actor prize, while Emma Stone won Leading Actress for Poor Things (right)

Oppenheimer frontman Christopher Nolan was awarded the Director honour for his work on the acclaimed biopic

The period blockbuster was also awarded Best Film, boosting the film's Oscars prospects

It was previously announced the BAFTA for Outstanding British Contribution to Cinema would go to programmer and archivist June Givanni, founder of the Pan African Film Archive, who collected the prize during the ceremony from Bridgerton star Adjoa Andoh.

Northern Ireland actor James Martin, from Oscar-winning film An Irish Goodbye, presented the British short film Bafta to Yasmin Afifi and Elizabeth Rufai for Jellyfish And Lobster, a tale about care home residents.

Poor Things won two more BAFTAs for best costume design, and make-up and hair.

Samantha Morton collected the BAFTA Fellowship from producer David Heyman, who she worked with on Fantastic Beasts And Where To Find Them.

There were tributes from her Minority Report co-star Tom Cruise, as well as collaborators Susan Lynch, Molly Windsor and Daniel Mays, while Heyman described her as a 'rare breed and true artist'.

The BAFTA Rising Star award was won by Mia Mckenna-Bruce following a public vote.

The star of coming-of-age film How To Have Sex appeared emotional on stage as she thanked her family and her 'beautiful baby boy'.