She also carries compression socks, electrolyte packets and sheet masks

The content creator took to TikTok to recommend keeping a 'bag within a bag'

Lindsay Silberman, based in both New York and Florida, has visited 63 countries

A travel expert has revealed some of her favorite plane hacks for passengers tackling long-haul flights.

Lindsay Silberman, who splits her time between New York and Florida, took to TikTok to divulge her top tips for those on the move.

She recommended keeping a 'bag within a bag' for necessities as well as championing compression socks, electrolyte packets, face and lips masks and noise-canceling headphones.

The content creator, who has visited 63 countries, was quickly inundated with praise from other social media users.

Lindsay Silberman, who splits her time between New York and Florida, took to TikTok to divulge her top tips for those on the move

She explained: 'I pack a duffel as my personal item and inside I keep a pouch with everything I need easily accessible'

Travel hacks for long flights Pack a bag within a bag Wear compression socks Use electrolyte powder in your water Apply a face and lip mask Opt for Bose's noise-cancelling headphones Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/travel/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

In the clip, which has so far been viewed more than 5.2 million times, Lindsay quickly launched into her list of top tips.

Demonstrating with her own luggage, she began: 'I like to call this the bag within a bag.

'I pack a duffel as my personal item and inside I keep a pouch with everything I need easily accessible so you don't have to keep digging back into your bag anytime you need something.'

Next, she continued: 'If you're doing a long-haul flight and you're not using compression socks, you're doing it wrong.

'Personally I'm just not into the cankle aesthetic and that's why I love compression socks.'

The keen traveler then shared yet another hack as she poured electrolyte powder into her water bottle.

'I do not enjoy peeing every five seconds on a long-haul flight. That's why I always bring these electrolyte packets - helps keep me hydrated without having to drink like a gallon of water and it also balances out the wine,' she joked.

But Lindsay did not stop there with her insights as she then whipped out her face and lip masks.

Next, the content creator continued: 'If you 're doing a long-haul flight and you're not using compression socks, you're doing it wrong'

The keen traveler then shared yet another hack as she poured electrolyte powder into her water bottle

She said: 'I prefer not to look like a haggard worm when I land after a long-haul flight, so I always use a nice sheet mask.'

The content creator said she carries out her beauty routine - which also includes a lip mask - even in economy, adding that she doesn't care about what other passengers might think.

For Lindsay's final hack, she explained: 'If you travel a lot or if you have an annoyingly loud coworker, get the Bose noise-canceling headphones. T hey will change your life.'

Lindsay proudly captioned the post: 'Shamelessly sheet masking on planes since 2012.'

Her video was quickly flooded with comments as followers thanked her for the helpful tips.

One person wrote: 'My family makes fun of me for packing bags inside bags #feelingunderstood,' and Lindsay responded: 'They're obviously not on our level of *strategy*'

She said: 'I prefer not to look like a haggard worm when I land after a long-haul flight, so I always use a nice sheet mask'

Her video was quickly flooded with comments as followers thanked her for the helpful tips

Another person added: 'Yassss!! Planes and hotels are my favorite places for masking.'

A third person commented: 'I've never seen anyone on a flight with a face mask... I must be traveling wrong!!'

'Sheet mask yaasss, I'm not the only crazy one,' another person wrote.

One person added: 'Compression socks are such a good call. Frequent long flights can increase your risk of blood clots. Safe travels!'

'I tried compression socks because of your video... yes, was super helpful,' another person wrote.

One person commented: 'I love the electrolyte hack. Thank you.'

Another follower added: 'The Bose noise-canceling headphones are THE BEST. Don't fly without them,' and Lindsay replied: 'Same. Haven't heard a crying baby in years.'

One person wrote: '"Haggard worm" - new tagline unlocked,' and Lindsay comedically responded: 'I spend a disproportionate amount of my life trying to not look like a haggard worm.'