Paloma Faith has revealed that she had a 'nervous breakdown' following her split from husband Leyman Lahcine.

The singer, 42 admitted she finds it hard to look back on that period in her life because she was 'so broken' and 'full of guilt and shame' over the end of their relationship.

Paloma married Leyman, 36, in 2017, before confirming they'd split in 2022 after nine years together.

The New York hitmaker and the French artist - with whom she has two daughters aged seven and two - parted ways in 2022.

Speaking about her relationship with her ex-partner now, Paloma told The Sun: 'I was so broken, honestly - I think I had a nervous breakdown.

Paloma Faith has revealed that she had a 'nervous breakdown' following her split from husband Leyman Lahcine

The singer married French artist Leyman in 2017 before confirming they'd split in 2022 after nine years together (the pair are pictured in 2018)

'I was so broken that my brain didn't even work in that way of being conscious. It is difficult for me to remember much of it because I was so sad and full of guilt and shame.'

Despite her heartbreak, Paloma star was determined to maintain an amicable relationship with her ex for the sake of their children.

She said: 'You have to see your ex all the time. You can't just say, ''This is too painful''.

'We are conflict-adverse so we were both quick to try and be amicable and, as with most things in life, if you pretend it for long enough it becomes true.'

Paloma added that isn't ready to date again yet because she doesn't feel 'emotionally available' to a potential partner.

But if she does decide to go looking for love again, the 'Only Love Can Hurt Like This' singer would try an app such as Tinder after previously feeling dissatisfied by the invite-only exclusive matchmaking app Raya.

Paloma is also set to appear on this week's Jonathan Ross Show and candidly opens up on the therapeutic process of writing her most personal album yet.

'They're all personal but it's just that the worst thing that happened to me, happened and I wrote an album about it,' she explained of her upcoming sixth record The Glorification of Sadness.

The singer admitted she finds it hard to look back on that period in her life because she was 'so broken' (Paloma and Leyman in 2015)

Paloma is also set to appear on this week's Jonathan Ross Show and candidly opens up on the therapeutic process of writing her most personal album yet

Speaking about her relationship with her ex-partner now, Paloma revealed, 'We're doing really well and I think it's as well as can be. I'm not pretending I'm like Gwyeth Paltrow, I'm not consciously uncoupling. At times, it's awful but we're navigating'

'It chronicles the stages of grief I went through breaking up with my partner of ten years and father to my two children,' she added.

Paloma revealed, 'We're really good. We're doing really well and I think it's as well as can be.'

'I'm not pretending I'm like Gwyeth Paltrow, I'm not consciously uncoupling. At times, it's awful but we're navigating and I do think we're doing a lot better than some couples that are married.'

'My observation is that the reason why our relationship is so good now is that I expect nothing from him and vice-versa.'

Revealing how her ex-partner feels about the break-up inspiring her new album, Paloma said: 'He knows what he signed up for.

'He was a little bit disappointed when he saw the end of my How You Leave A Man video. He did go 'Why am I in the trunk?' It's a metaphor babe!'

'He was a bit offended. But he now knows we're together forever - it means the absolute eternal thing is that our love came together and made these kids, it is infinite. We are in a different situation. I've dedicated the album to him and my children to say this is infinite love.'

Paloma also appeared on the How To Fail With Elizabeth Day podcast this week, on which she revealed she suffered a miscarriage on the set of 2019 drama Pennyworth, in which she plays sociopath Bet Sykes.

She explained that while filming a fight scene, she realised she was miscarrying but insisted on carrying on with filming for fear of losing her job, saying: 'I would just be going home without work and without a viable pregnancy.'

The star, who shares two children with Leyman, also detailed suffering a traumatic ectopic pregnancy after undergoing IVF treatment, with the ectopic pregnancy damaging a fallopian tube and impacting her fertility.

She went on: 'I then had an ectopic pregnancy with the first one then my fertility starts going because I've had one tube damaged. The second time worked, so I was lucky because I actually ended up with 2 viable pregnancies quite quickly.'

On keeping her miscarriage secret at work, Paloma said: '[The miscarriage] started at work and it was a fight scene on Pennyworth. I just thought to myself, It's gone so I might as well carry on with what I was doing. I had to go to the toilet 9 times...

'I told them I ate something bad last night because I knew if I told them they would escort me home. I didn't want to. I would just be going home without work and without a viable pregnancy.'