American, Delta and United. They're the big three U.S legacy carriers and between them operate around 3,000 airplanes.

So they should know a thing or two about flying people from A to B.

But just how much they know is put to the test by experts from travel site The Points Guy, who film their experiences flying economy with American, Delta and United on arguably the most prestigious domestic U.S route - New York to Los Angeles.

The footage is fascinating, with negatives including call bells going unanswered and 'sadly disappointing food' to a seat with 'lovely padding' and a 'soft and warm blanket'.

Read on for the full verdicts.

DELTA AIR LINES

Putting Delta Air Lines to the test is Editor at Large Nicky Kelvin, who flies in a state-of-the-art Airbus A330-900neo for $305

Nicky told the Mail: 'Check-in was easy and smooth and once on board I found the seat was very comfortable and supportive, with lovely padding'

Plane sailing: 'The legroom [above] was good,' said Nicky

'There was a large inflight entertainment screen [above], bigger than you might expect for an economy product,' revealed Nicky

Putting Delta Air Lines to the test is Editor at Large Nicky Kelvin, who flies from JFK in a state-of-the-art Airbus A330-900neo for $305 (£240).

He told the Mail: 'Check-in was easy and smooth and once on board I found the seat was very comfortable and supportive, with lovely padding.

'The legroom was good and there was a large inflight entertainment screen, bigger than you might expect for an economy product.'

Once the flight was underway, Nicky received a blanket 'that was soft and warm'

Above is Nicky's $12 snack box, which 'provided for a solid small meal'

Anything else on the 'first impressions' list?

'There were multiple charging ports,' added Nicky.

Once the flight was underway, Nicky received a blanket 'that was soft and warm' and headphones, although he recommends a Bluetooth dongle, allowing you to use your own headphones.

A wide selection of free beverages were available, explained Nicky - water, tea, coffee and juices, along with spirits and beers

Overall, Nicky was 'very impressed' with his A330-900neo flight

He continued: 'A wide selection of free beverages were available - water, tea, coffee and juices – along with spirits and beers. I also received a free snack. The flight had no substantial food available for free, so I went for a snack box for $12 [£9.50], which provided for a solid small meal.'

Final verdict? Nicky approved of Delta's economy offering.

He said: 'Overall, I was very impressed with the flight, especially by the free drink and snack offering, and drinks that were full size. The meals that you could purchase onboard were also fresh and tasty.'

UNITED AIRLINES

Mark Ramos (above) was assigned to put United Airlines to the test

Mark paid $254 for his Boeing 777 ticket to the City of Angels. Above - economy on the United 777

Mark Ramos was assigned to put United Airlines to the test.

He paid $254 (£200) for his Boeing 777 ticket from Newark Liberty International Airport to the City of Angels.

His experience? A bit of a mixed bag.

He told the Mail that he checked in through the United app, 'which saved a tonne of time at the airport', then found himself in a tight squeeze.

Mark revealed: 'I boarded a full flight and sat between two people. It was pretty tight.' Entertainment screen? Just a tablet/phone holder, Mark noted

On the nourishment front, Mark received a free coffee and Biscoff biscuit

The seat had no leg room or extra space to stretch your legs, Mark complained

Mark's experience on the United 777 was a mixed bag

There weren't any serious complaints about the service – but when Mark pressed the call bell, it went unanswered

He revealed: 'I boarded a full flight and sat between two people. It was pretty tight. The seat had no leg room or extra space to stretch your legs. During the flight, I received a blanket but no pillow.'

Entertainment screen? Just a tablet/phone holder and two charger ports, Mark noted – but no USB port.

'Overall, very basic accommodation,' he said.

On the nourishment front, Mark received a free coffee and Biscoff biscuit, noting that 'United also provides purchasable food items from snack boxes to hot food from their bistro with lots of options'.

There weren't any serious complaints about the service – but when Mark pressed the call bell, it went unanswered.

AMERICAN AIRLINES

Testing American's prowess was senior marketing manager Liam Spencer

Liam paid $428 to fly economy to LA in an Airbus A321T

Liam said: 'Inside the cabin, the seats immediately felt like a significant step up from those on low-cost carriers such as Spirit or Ryanair'

Testing American's prowess was senior marketing manager Liam Spencer.

He paid $428 (£340) to fly economy from JFK in an Airbus A321T.

The upsides?

He told the Mail: 'Check-in was bright, clean and pleasant. The self-service checkouts were quick and easy to use.

'Inside the cabin, the seats immediately felt like a significant step up from those on low-cost carriers such as Spirit or Ryanair. The seat is big and comfy, with an adjustable headrest.

Liam was disappointed with the American Airlines food

Overall, Liam had a 'very good flight' on the American A321 (stock image above)

'There was a decent amount of recline with plenty of legroom and there was a handy charging port attached to the seat and tray table.

'What's more, though small, there was an inflight entertainment screen, always a nice touch when flying economy. The screen also has a headphone jack and a port to charge your phone.

'The flight had a free food service, which became available 40 minutes into the flight - always nice to have free food in economy.

'I didn't receive a pillow or blanket, but did get headphones for the inflight entertainment.'

Liam concluded that it was a 'very good flight' – except for his dining experience. 'The food was sadly disappointing and dry,' the travel guru lamented.

For more from The Points Guy, visit thepointsguy.com. To see the original American vs Delta vs United video click here.