Erik ten Hag hailed the development of Rasmus Hojlund, labelling his star striker a 'fighter' after his two goals at Luton.

Hojlund started the season without a league goal for the first four-and-a-half months but continued his purple patch in front of goal at Kenilworth Road with his first here after 37 seconds followed up with a chested effort after seven minutes.

The Dane has been a revelation since Boxing Day, when he scored his first Premier League goal for United. No player has scored more times in the league since that point than Hojlund.

'We are very happy with our recruitment and [in Hojlund] we recruited the right character,' Ten Hag said.

'Of course he can perform under stress when things go against him. He has the abilities to have a strong character, be resilient, be determined and score goals and that's what we saw when we scouted him.

Rasmus Hojlund scored twice to fire Manchester United to a crucial victory against Luton

Boss Erik ten Hag praised Hojlund's development and lauded the in-form striker as a 'fighter'

Your browser does not support iframes.

'He needed support [at the start of the season] but he kept calm.'

Hojlund's opener set a record, making him the youngest player in Premier League history to score in six consecutive games, breaking Joe Willock's record with Hojlund managing it aged 21 years and 14 days.

Ten Hag is thrilled that things have finally clicked given Hojlund went months without finding the net in the league.

'When he started he didn't have so much luck… the disallowed goal against Brighton as one,' Ten Hag added.

'Those kinds of moments are very important when you come to a new league, especially as a striker, to build some confidence.

'We see he is a fighter and he has great ability in front of the goal.

'There are many areas he can improve but his scoring ability is clear.'

Hojlund made the breakthrough inside the first minute before scoring his second soon after

Despite having now chalked up 13 goals for the season, the young striker had endured a lengthy barren streak

On Hojlund, who is now up to 13 goals for the season in all competitions, he added: 'He doesn't get nervous or lose confidence when he's not scoring.

'Once you are in a run, you see it, now he's scoring and he's in. That's how he is now. He has a lot of confidence and I'm sure he'll score more.'