Sylvester Stallone has taken the title of overprotective father to the next level by hiring Navy SEALs to provide self-defense training for his eldest daughters before they moved to the crime-plagued New York City.

Concerned for the safety of his daughters, Sophia, 27, and Sistine, 25, the movie star had to take extra measures by arranging a lesson in 'military-esque self-defense training' for them.

'It was the hardest. It was about six hours we were in those woods,' Sistine told the New York Post ahead of the season two premiere of 'The Family Stallone'.

'Sophia and I got our asses whooped by these guys. They were the real deal,' she continued, adding that the training was filmed for the family's reality show.

Sophie and Sistine made the Big Apple of their new home in March, 2023, despite the presence of roaming criminals on the streets and the skyrocketing violent crime in the city.

Sylvester Stallone is being an overprotective father by going to the extent of hiring Navy SEALs to provide self-defense training for his eldest daughters before they move to the crime-plagued New York City. Pictured from left to right: Sylvester Stallone, Sistine Stallone, Scarlet Stallone, Sophia Stallone and Stallone's wife Jennifer Flavin

Concerned for the safety of his daughters, Sophia, 27, and Sistine, 25, the movie star had to take extra measures, including arranging a lesson in 'military-esque self-defense training' for them

Sophie (left) and Sistine (right) made the Big Apple of their new home in March, 2023, despite the presence of roaming criminals on the streets and the skyrocketing rates of violent crime in the city

Sophie and Sistine were even tasked with chasing chickens, reminiscent of a scene from the 1979 film 'Rocky II' starring Stallone.

The 77-year-old actor explained, 'Chasing a chicken sounds like a fun game. You have to have speed, patience, agility and understand that you're going to be beaten by something that weighs three pounds and has a beak.'

Sistine said: 'That is deceivingly hard. I went in there a little cocky, no pun intended. I got beat by the chicken.'

The 25-year-old model said the footage on camera looks 'really nice and kind of fluffy,' but the training session was incredibly difficult.

She added: 'I'm not surprised my dad put us through something like this because our entire life we grew up with him doing these sort of military-esque, self-defense trainings.'

The sisters recalled that their upbringing involved a rigorous morning routine, including waking up every day at 6 am.

Sophie said: 'He would make us eat eggs with ketchup, for some reason that combination was like an elite combination.'

'There was a lot of sit-ups, push-ups, pull-ups, clean and jerks, it was golfing, it was pool table, it was shot put...' she added.

'He made the perfect boys,' Sistine chimed in and laughed.

Sophie (pictured) and Sistine were even tasked with chasing chickens, reminiscent of a scene from the 1979 film 'Rocky II' starring Stallone

'I don't think he'll ever be less nervous. He's like a classic, overprotective dad. Three daughters at an age where, you know, we're kind of all over the place and we're out and about,' Sistine (pictured) said

Sistine added: 'I'm not surprised my dad put us through something like this because our entire life we grew up with him doing these sort of military-esque, self-defense trainings'

Sophie and Sistine have lived in the city for a year, but Stallone couldn't be less concerned about their safety.

'I don't think he'll ever be less nervous. He's like a classic, overprotective dad. Three daughters at an age where, you know, we're kind of all over the place and we're out and about,' Sistine said.

The actor's concerns are valid, considering that Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg has reduced a staggering 60 percent of felony cases to lesser charges in the past year.

The soft-on-crime DA has also declined to prosecute 14 percent of all arrests, compared to just nine percent in 2021 when his predecessor was last in post.

Bragg has been criticized for his soft-on-crime policies, which include calling on prosecutors to ditch felony armed robbery charges and instead charge suspects with petit larceny and not seeking carceral sentences for criminals.

It comes amid fury over criminals being allowed to roam the streets of the Big Apple, which continues to be rocked by a violent crime wave.

Amidst the arrival of tens of thousands of migrants at its borders, the latest incident involves migrants brutally assaulting two police officers in Times Square last month

Yohenry Brito was at the center of the melee, which started with him resisting arrest, according to the NYPD

Crime in New York City has decreased by .032 percent since before the pandemic, but the decrease is not enough for many who feel unsafe in Manhattan.

Amidst the arrival of tens of thousands of migrants at its borders, the latest incident involves migrants brutally assaulting two police officers in Times Square last month.

Five migrants charged with assaulting two NYPD officers in Times Square last month pleaded not guilty in Manhattan court on Friday.

Yohenry Brito, 24, Yorman Reveron, 24, Kelvin Servita Arocha, 19, Darwin Andres Gomez-Izquiel, 19, and Wilson Juarez, 21, were all sent to Rikers Island to await trial after being arraigned.

The all face charges of second-degree assault and obstructing governmental administration, except Juarez, who is charged with tampering with evidence and hindering prosecution. They are all due back in court on April 13.

A total of eight migrants have been charged, as police are still on the lookout for at least eight other suspects they believe were involved in the melee.