SHOPPING – Contains affiliated content. Products featured in this Mail Best article are selected by our shopping writers. If you make a purchase using links on this page, DailyMail.com will earn an affiliate commission. Click here for more information.

Everyone needs a go-to pair of leggings that comes through on those ‘what the heck should I wear?’ days. For thousands of satisfied shoppers, the answer lies in a pair of BALEAF high-waisted capri leggings.

Starting at just $26.99, these leggings look as fabulous as they feel. Conforming to your body in the most flattering way, they’re perfect to wear while working out, running errands, and everything in between.

BALEAF High-Waisted Capri Leggings A great pair of leggings has the potential to make any day better. Available in a variety of colors, these flattering bottoms are perfect for any off-duty activity, from errand runs to gym sessions. The details set them apart, from the smoothing high waist that cinches in your waist without feeling too snug to the trio of pockets that offer space for everything from credit cards to phones. Shop

Take your pick from an assortment of stylish colors, ranging from neutrals like black and tan to bright colors like purple and rose

Take your pick from a variety of great colors, ranging from classic black, white, and grey to brighter colors like rose wine, purple, and dark blue.

Most importantly, BALEAF leggings are incredibly soft and comfortable. The brushed fabric feels more like a luxurious, high-end material — and that’s exactly what you want when you’re on the move all day long.

As being ‘on the move’ can encompass so many activities, these leggings are truly the game-changers you’ve needed. No matter what your lifestyle, a solid pair of versatile bottoms like these can make all the difference.

You’ll experience what makes them so special when you’re breaking a sweat at the gym (and yes, these definitely pass the squat test!), walking the dog around the neighborhood, or playing outside with the kids.

These pass the squat test! BALEAF leggings are amazingly stretchy, flexible enough to accommodate your every move without affecting fit or comfort

BALEAF leggings are also super flattering with their knee-length design. They’re suited to virtually all body types and heights, whether you’re tall, average, or petite.

Plus, little details set them apart in a big way — think front pockets that are sized just right to hold your cell phone, along with a single back pocket to keep other items safe when you’re out and about.

The stretchy elastic waistband is another feature you’ll appreciate, as it helps smooth your belly without restricting your movements or feeling uncomfortably snug.

BALEAF leggings are made with a super-soft, ultra-stretchy material that keep you comfortable while you're on the move

Users report that the styling possibilities are equally impressive. Whether you want to rock a breezy tunic or throw on a tank and a hoodie, you can be confident you’ll look flawless from top to bottom in your BALEAF leggings.

‘I love the length of these because they are great on a hot day without wearing shorts,’ states one enthusiastic wearer. ‘I’ve done miles and miles of strenuous hiking in these and they have held up great.’

Kick back and relax in your BALEAF leggings - these are as ideal for relaxing on the couch as they are for strolling around the neighborhood or breaking a sweat at the gym

Another raves, ‘They shape nicely to my body. They look and feel great. They even have a little pocket to stash a credit card or key in.’

And a third shares, ‘This is the third pair of BALEAF leggings I have purchased. They are well made and the material is smooth and soft. These short come just below my knee which is perfect for me. I have short legs.’

Soft, stretchy, and versatile all at once? You definitely can’t go wrong with a pair of BALEAF high-waisted capri leggings.