Filmmaker Jamie Price and his partner waded into the water to save the motorist

A couple was forced to rescue a trapped driving instructor from 4ft of floodwater while firefighters stood by because they were 'only allowed to go in at waist-height'.

Filmmaker Jamie Price and his partner Danielle waded into the deep water because the motorist 'looked like he was drowning' when they arrived at the scene in Ingatestone, Essex, yesterday.

Two Essex fire and rescue crews, an ambulance and a police car were parked near the stricken vehicle, but Mr Price said he was shocked to see the emergency services were not doing more to help.

He told MailOnline: 'I noticed the driver was still in there and I thought, "Why is there a fireman standing beside him on the radio leaning up against the fence?"

'I'm thinking, "Why are they telling him to stay there, why are they not helping him?" So I asked him and that's when they said they're waiting for other crews to come because they're only wader trained, and it's too high for them for their training and what they're allowed to do.'

Mr Price said that they feared the specialised crews would not arrive in time because they were coming from Colchester, which is why they decided to take action themselves.

Did YOU see what happened? Email arthur.parashar@mailonline.co.uk

He explained that the fire brigade was telling him not to help but that the motorist looked like he was going to drown.

Mr Price continued: 'I thought he was going to die. I thought the man is trapped in the car up to his chest.

'I knew for a fact the water was freezing cold. He'd obviously been in there for some time waiting for the fire brigade to arrive, plus we'd been there probably approximately five minutes before I got to the car in the water.'

Filmmaker Jamie Price and his partner Danielle waded into the deep water to help the motorist in Ingatestone, Essex, on Sunday morning

Pictures show the learner car completely submerged in the deep water - as the couple intervened to help

Crews from Essex Fire and Rescue, as well as an ambulance and police car were at the scene

Speaking about what state the driving instructor was in, Mr Price said: 'He was still on the phone to the operator at the time when I got him out. When I got him out he was dazed and he wasn't thinking clearly. That's how I knew he was in shock.'

He added: 'It's a very, very, very dangerous ford, probably the most dangerous ford in the country if I'm completely honest at the moment.'

The filmmaker said he understood it was a difficult situation for the fire and rescue crews and that he knew they did want to do something. But he admitted it didn't look good that the fire brigade were 'doing nothing' while two strangers rescued him.

He continued: 'I felt a bit bad for them to be honest, because it's not like they're not capable of helping, and it's not like they didn't want to help, but the legislation and the risk assessments and things that they have to abide by obviously harbours how they were able to assist that man.'

'As a member of the public, I'm not governed by the same rules. The risk assessment to me was not important. The man's life outweighed any other risk to me.'

'He was [thankful] but we didn't even do it for that to be honest. At that stage when you're in that position, you don't need a thank you. That man's safety is paramount, that is the thank you.'

Essex Fire and Rescue Service said in a statement that: 'Crews who arrived at the incident at Buttsbury Wash found a car stuck in over 1.2m of flood water.

'Because of the depth, these crews requested additional support from our specialist water team while they remained at the scene to ensure the driver was safe. The driver got out of the car themselves.'

It comes as intense rainfall this weekend saw rivers burst their banks, roads cut off in villages and damage caused to homes and businesses.

While Brits enjoyed a break in the weather with some sunny spells on Sunday afternoon, Met Office meteorologist Craig Snell warned it will be followed by the 'next area of rain', with heavy rain set to fall in northwest England and Wales on Monday.

Meanwhile, a pub in Somerset has been submerged in knee-high floodwater after torrential downpours battered large parts of the country and sparked flooding and travel chaos.

Video footage showed staff at The George Inn, in Croscombe, wading through murky water as they illustrated the 'sad reality' for many flood-prone businesses.

Tables and chairs had been moved off the ground as they assessed the damage and waited for the water to subside.

Staff wading through the knee-high floodwater at The George Inn, Croscombe

Furniture was moved off the ground by staff at the pub as flooding hit Britain over the weekend

One staff member at the pub said it was the 'sad reality' for the business which has been flooded again

This week saw one month's rain fall within less than 24 hours

But after this week saw one month's rain fall within less than 24 hours, more than 50 flood warnings remain in place for England, meaning flooding is expected, with 20 flood alerts in force for Wales, meaning flooding is possible.

Between 3pm Saturday and 8am Sunday there was 72mm of rainfall in White Barrow, Devon, 52mm in Priddy, Somerset, and 48mm in Croeserw, West Glamorgan.

Villages such as Croscombe, Somerset, have seen the local rivers burst their banks, flooding homes and businesses and causing widespread disruption.

Flood water is also expected to cause severe delays to national bus and train services, whilst motorists are expected to face longer journey times because of road closures.

Houses and businesses in Croscombe, Somerset, were affected on Sunday

A cyclist rides through floodwater on a country in Eton in Windsor, Berkshire, after heavy overnight rain

A flooded road between Whittlesey and Thorney, near Peterborough, Cambridgeshire on Sunday

Motorists make a splash as they drive through a large puddle following heavy rain in Greenwich, South East London

There are fears that flooding could cause widespread disruption, as torrential showers this week saw around one month's rain within less than 24 hours (Pictured: Flooding in Walton, Warwickshire, on Tuesday)

Motorists driving through floodwater on a country road in Eton, Windsor

Across England, there are 41 flood warnings in place and 197 flood alerts - the former meaning flooding is 'likely', the latter 'possible' - as already-waterlogged land is at greater risk of becoming swamped with floodwaters.

Forecaster Craig Snell said: 'The ground is already a little bit more saturated across England and Wales compared to Scotland and Northern Ireland, so they'll be a little more sensitive to the rainfall.

'Some parts could see disruption, transport may be a little bit delayed and if you're driving on the roads your journey may take a little bit longer due to spray and road closures.'

The current spell of wet weather is in sharp contrast to the infamous drought last year, when Britain underwent its driest February in 30 years - with just 15.3mm of rain falling on average.