Claire Foy beamed as she reunited with her All Of Us Strangers co-star Andrew Scott at the British Vogue and Tiffany & Co afterparty at Annabel's in London on Sunday.

The Crown star, 39, who had been nominated for Best Supporting Actress for the movie, stunned as she attended the late night bash in a gorgeous white lace gown.

Her off the shoulder frock fitted like a glove and boasted sheer sleeves as well as black trim detailing.

Claire accentuated her features with radiant make-up and swept her brunette locks into a bun and appeared in high spirits as she shared a giggle with Andrew.

The 47-year-old, who lost out on Best Actor to Cillian Murphy, showcased his unique sense of style as he rocked a bright red suit.

Claire Foy, 39, beamed as she reunited with her All Of Us Strangers co-star Andrew Scott, 47, at Vogue BAFTAs afterparty at Annabel's in London on Sunday

The actress who had been nominated for her role in the movie, stunned as she attended the last night bash in a gorgeous white lace gown

Earlier in the evening Claire took to the red carpet in a dazzling nude gown which boasted a glittering tassel top and cascaded down into an embellished skirt.

Claire elevated her frame in a pair of silver heels and accessorised with a simple pair of drop earrings.

Speaking to the PA news agency on the red carpet, she said: 'I think I've been so overwhelmed with the response the film's had, just (going) out and about every day, and it's amazing to have been part of something that has had that impact.

'I'm just so thrilled... something I never thought I would get from my job, which is really amazing.'

Oppenheimer won Best Film as well as sweeping the board in the major categories during the swanky ceremony.

The epic biographical thriller led the wins with seven gongs, including Best Actor for Cillian Murphy, Best Supporting Actor for Robert Downey Jr and Best Director for Christopher Nolan. It had the most nominations with 13.

The biggest night in British film returned with actor David Tennant as host and an array of guest presenters on hand to deliver awards throughout the night.

Murphy, 47 - who plays the titular role in Nolan's atomic bomb saga - picked up the prize at the prestigious British awards ceremony.

THE BAFTA WINNERS AT A GLANCE Best Film - Oppenheimer Best Director - Christopher Nolan, Oppenheimer Supporting Actor - Robert Downey Jr, Oppenheimer Leading Actor - Cillian Murphy, Oppenheimer Leading Actress - Emma Stone, Poor Things Supporting Actress - Da'vine Joy Randolph, The Holdovers Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Her off the shoulder frock fitted like a glove and boasted sheer sleeves as well as black trim detailing

Claire accentuated her features with radiant make-up and swept her brunette locks into a bun and appeared in high spirits as she shared a giggle with Andrew

He triumphed against Bradley Cooper for Maestro, Colman Domingo for Rustin, Paul Giamatti for The Holdovers, Barry Keoghan for Saltburn and Teo Yoo for Past Lives.

Accepting the trophy he said: 'Oh boy, holy moly, thank you very, very much BAFTA.'

He paid tribute to 'the most dynamic, kindest producer-director partnership in Hollywood: Chris Nolan and Emma Thomas, thank you for seeing something in me that I probably didn't see in myself.'

The Irish actor said to Nolan: 'Thank for always pushing me and demanding excellence because that is what you deliver time and time again.'

Nolan also acknowledged his 'fellow nominees and my Oppenhomies', adding: 'I know it's a cliche to say, but I'm in awe of you.'

Earlier in the evening Claire took to the red carpet in a dazzling nude gown which boasted a glittering tassel top and cascaded down into an embellished skirt

Claire elevated her frame in a pair of silver heels and accessorised with a simple pair of drop earrings

He said J Robert Oppenheimer was a 'colossally knotty character', adding: 'We have a space to debate and interrogate and investigate that complexity and it's a privilege to be a part of this community with you all

Downey Jr, 58, also collected a BAFTA for his role as Lewis Strauss in the Hollywood blockbuster, which has swept the board during the 2024 awards season.

He admitted he owes the award to Nolan, producer Emma Thomas and leading man Murphy, as well as 'British influence'.

Gesturing to Nolan, he said: 'Recently that dude suggested I attempt an understated approach as a last ditch effort to resurrect my dwindling credibility.'

Downey Jr's win set a new record for the longest gap between wins by any performer as it comes 31 years after his previous BAFTA, for the 1993 film Chaplin.