Dakota Johnson got candid about seeing her latest film Madame Webb after it was slammed by critics.

The daughter of Melanie Griffith and Don Johnson, 34, who plays the title character in the new superhero flick, said she has not had a chance to view it during her interview with Magic FM on Thursday.

'I don’t know when I’ll see it,' she stated. 'Someday.'

After humorously recalling skipping the Madame Web premiere to 'go have dinner' instead, Dakota insisted her decision had nothing to do with the film itself.

'For me, it’s a way to not have, like, an existential crisis,' she admitted. 'Not watching my movies is like self-care.'

Dakota Johnson got candid about seeing her latest film Madame Webb after it was slammed by critics; pictured at MagicFM interview on February 15

The daughter of Melanie Griffith and Don Johnson , 34, who plays the title character in the new superhero flick , said she has not had a chance to view it

The Fifty Shades of Grey star also confessed she never 'Googles' herself.

The big reveal comes after Madame Web, which also stars Sydney Sweeney, debuted with a 17% rating on Rotten Tomatoes.

Critics called the film 'as dumb and schlocky as the worst of the genre' and 'a laughable affair.'

X, formerly known as Twitter, was flooded with negative comments about it, with one person calling the film 'a series of misses and wasted opportunities.'

Another describing it as 'a clunky, poorly-written, messy, and sloppy movie packed with some mediocre editing and performances.'

A different user simply wrote, 'Morbius was better.'

Sony's Morbius, which was released in 2022 and starred Jared Leto, is known for being one of the most poorly reviewed superhero films of all time, with a low rating of 15 per cent on Rotten Tomatoes.

A few people, however, praised Madame Web online following the premiere.

'I don’t know when I’ll see it,' she stated. 'Someday'; pictured at the Mexico City premiere of Madame Web on Tuesday

In Madame Web, Dakota takes on the role of Cassandra Webb, a New York City paramedic endowed with psychic abilities due to a mutant gene, akin to the concept of X-Men.

X, formerly known as Twitter , was flooded with negative comments about it, with one person calling the film 'a series of misses and wasted opportunities'

Dakota was joined at the premiere by her costar, Mexican actor José María Yazpik (L), who plays Santiago, and the film's director and co-writer S.J. Clarkson (R)

'Madame Web exceeds expectations. Some of the dialog is cheesy AF, some heavy-handed product placement, and probably could've been tidied up a bit more - but the cast really work magic with what they had, their chemistry is a lot of fun, and the suits look great,' one reviewer wrote on X afterwards.

In Madame Web, Dakota takes on the role of Cassandra Webb, a New York City paramedic endowed with psychic abilities due to a mutant gene, akin to the concept of X-Men.

Her character faces the task of safeguarding three women from an enigmatic adversary.

The film belongs to Sony's Spider-Man universe, distinctly separate from the Disney-owned Marvel Cinematic Universe.

This movie could potentially be one of the last collaborations between Sony and the Marvel Cinematic Universe, following Disney's acquisition of Marvel.

,