Rosamund Pike beamed as she bumped into supermodel Naomi Campbell at the 77th EE British Academy Film Awards held at the Royal Festival Hall on Sunday.

The Saltburn star, 45, who had been nominated for Best Supporting Actress, stunned in a gorgeous pale blue pleated gown.

Her stylish frock featured a dramatic princess skirt and plunging neckline which teased a glimpse of her nude lingerie beneath.

Rosamund sported a radiant make-up palette courtesy of Charlotte Tilbury including the brand's new Hollywood Beauty Icons lipstick in Pizzaz to accentuated her pout.

She chatted intently with Naomi on the star-studded red carpet and appeared old friends as they took each others hands.

Rosamund Pike, 45stunned in a pale blue pleated gown at the 77th EE British Academy Film Awards held at the Royal Festival Hall on Sunday

The actress (R) beamed as she bumped into supermodel Naomi Campbell (L) on the star-studded red carpet

The iconic model, 53, caught the eye as she appeared to channel The Traitors' host Claudia Winkleman in a dramatic black hooded cape.

Oppenheimer won Best Film as well as sweeping the board in the major categories during the swanky ceremony.

The epic biographical thriller led the wins with seven gongs, including Best Actor for Cillian Murphy, Best Supporting Actor for Robert Downey Jr and Best Director for Christopher Nolan. It had the most nominations with 13.

The biggest night in British film returned with actor David Tennant as host and an array of guest presenters on hand to deliver awards throughout the night.

Murphy, 47 - who plays the titular role in Nolan's atomic bomb saga - picked up the prize at the prestigious British awards ceremony.

He triumphed against Bradley Cooper for Maestro, Colman Domingo for Rustin, Paul Giamatti for The Holdovers, Barry Keoghan for Saltburn and Teo Yoo for Past Lives.

Accepting the trophy he said: 'Oh boy, holy moly, thank you very, very much BAFTA.'

He paid tribute to 'the most dynamic, kindest producer-director partnership in Hollywood: Chris Nolan and Emma Thomas, thank you for seeing something in me that I probably didn't see in myself.'

THE BAFTA WINNERS AT A GLANCE Best Film - Oppenheimer Best Director - Christopher Nolan, Oppenheimer Supporting Actor - Robert Downey Jr, Oppenheimer Leading Actor - Cillian Murphy, Oppenheimer Leading Actress - Emma Stone, Poor Things Supporting Actress - Da'vine Joy Randolph, The Holdovers Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

Her stylish frock featured a dramatic princess skirt and plunging neckline which teased a glimpse of her nude lingerie beneath

The beauty completed the look with a pair of towering platfrom heels

Rosamund oozed confidence as she strutted her stuff down the red carpet

Rosamund chatted intently with Naomi on the star-studded red carpet and appeared old friends as they took each others hands

The iconic model, 53, caught the eye as she appeared to channel The Traitors' host Claudia Winkleman in a dramatic black hooded cape

The Irish actor said to Nolan: 'Thank for always pushing me and demanding excellence because that is what you deliver time and time again.'

Nolan also acknowledged his 'fellow nominees and my Oppenhomies', adding: 'I know it's a cliche to say, but I'm in awe of you.'

He said J Robert Oppenheimer was a 'colossally knotty character', adding: 'We have a space to debate and interrogate and investigate that complexity and it's a privilege to be a part of this community with you all

Downey Jr, 58, also collected a BAFTA for his role as Lewis Strauss in the Hollywood blockbuster, which has swept the board during the 2024 awards season.

He admitted he owes the award to Nolan, producer Emma Thomas and leading man Murphy, as well as 'British influence'.

Gesturing to Nolan, he said: 'Recently that dude suggested I attempt an understated approach as a last ditch effort to resurrect my dwindling credibility.'

Downey Jr's win set a new record for the longest gap between wins by any performer as it comes 31 years after his previous BAFTA, for the 1993 film Chaplin.

The previous record was 27 years, set by Sir Anthony Hopkins in 2021 when he won the award for best actor for The Father, nearly three decades after his 1994 win for Shadowlands.