Kyle Sandilands is contemplating taking legal action against Kyle Chalmers over the Olympic swimmer's latest brand collaboration.

Chalmers, 25, announced on Wednesday that he had partnered with Melbourne sportswear brand Athletikan to launch a limited collection of sneakers emblazoned with the words 'King Kyle'.

'I was so excited to be able to develop and design my own shoe which represents me,' world champion Chalmers said in a press release.

The announcement poses an award situation for Sandilands, 52, who has owned the trademark King Kyle internationally since the early 2000s.

Discussing the situation on Thursday's Kyle And Jackie O Show, the shock jock said he's now dealing with a 'quandary' after after learning of Chalmers' sneaker line from longtime manager Bruno Bouchet.

Kyle Sandilands, 52, (left) is contemplating taking legal action against Kyle Chalmers, 25, (right) over the Olympic swimmer's new sneaker collection that features his trademark King Kyle

Sandilands said he initially brushed off the issue, saying: 'Who cares? It's some swimmer with some sh*tty little brand shoe.'

However, his legal team pushed back, asking him to consider 'What would Kanye do?'

'So my quandary is, do I bombard this bloke with the legal letters? Take all his medals, take his house, his car, shut this company down like bulldoze the joint down and then bring home a couple of metres of dirt as a trophy for destruction?' Or do I just don't worry about it?' Sandilands asked.

Discussing the situation on Thursday's Kyle And Jackie O Show, the shock jock said he's now dealing with a 'quandary' after after learning of Chalmers' sneaker line from longtime manager Bruno Bouchet

The radio star admitted if he doesn't take legal action now, the situation could become more problematic in future.

'What if [the sneaker rage] becomes this huge thing? What if it becomes a huge apparel brand like Culture Kings, worth hundreds of millions of dollars?' he pondered.

Sandilands questioned whether Athletikan searched on Google for whether King Kyle was trademarked before making the collection, adding: 'That's the first thing you do in a business.'

Sandilands said he initially brushed off the issue, saying: 'Who cares? It's some swimming [guy] with some sh*tty little brand shoe.' However, his legal team pushed back, asking him to consider 'What would Kanye do?'

Producer Pedro Vitola then suggested Sandilands demand Athletikan give all the shoes to the Kyle And Jackie O team in exchange for them not suing.

'This isn't here for you guys to line your pockets!' scoffed Sandilands, adding: 'If anyone's going to line their pockets, I'll be hanging those Commonwealth Games medals at my place!'

'You want a medal in return for the usage?' co-host Jackie 'O' Henderson interjected.

'I want all the medals, the car, the house, everything! The clothes, swimsuits, the goggles, the bathing cap,' Sandilands joked.

READ MORE: Kyle Chalmers BACKFLIPS after saying next year's Paris Olympics would be his last Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

By the end of the debate, Sandilands concluded he would 'decide later', and perhaps even invite Chalmers onto the show to hash it out on-air.

It comes after Chalmers revealed he almost quit swimming amid the infamous love triangle saga that rocked the Australian team in 2022.

Chalmers was in the eye of a media storm over his involvement in a love triangle with ex-girlfriend Emma McKeon and fellow swimmer Cody Simpson.

The 25-year-old's world championships backflip - in which he U-turned on his decision to skip Budapest, thereby denying Simpson a place on the team - resulted in allegations that his call was not purely based on swimming.

The story did not go away during the Commonwealth Games, where all three swimmers competed for Australia in Birmingham, and Chalmers says he spent the hours leading up to his 100m freestyle race crying in his hotel room.

'It is a sport that I love.' he told A Current Affair. 'But I was in a very, very dark place.

'Reflecting on that. I was asking myself "why am I actually doing this? Why?"

'Especially last year, I think rock bottom, was probably, like, alone at the Commonwealth Games. Just being in my room completely preparing for the final, I was crying in my room.

'We're in a university so a pretty old sort of building. "What am I, what am I here for?"'