Amazon has launched a second-hand fashion platform selling a plethora of designer labels.

Fashion resale site Hardly Ever Worn It (HEWI) now has a storefront on Luxury Stores at Amazon Europe, the first foray into pre-loved clothes for the e-commerce giant.

The likes of Chanel, Gucci, Jimmy Choo, Dior, Louis Vuitton and Hermes are now available on the website.

At the top end, items on the site include a Hermes two-tone Mini Kelly II (£24,995), a Chanel patent pink Camellia bag (£6,240), Giuseppe Zanotti Amour sandals (£310.50), and an Elie Saab sequinned tulle dress (£5,950).

For more budget conscious shoppers, there is a Ganni T-shirt available for £21.81 and Vera Wang silk trousers priced at just £24.70.

Fashion resale site Hardly Ever Worn It (HEWI) has launched a storefront on Amazon Europe

Ikram Abdi models a Chanel cardigan with leather trousers and a Valentino Garavani belt

Luxury Stores is accessible to Amazon customers in the UK, Germany, France, Italy and Spain.

An extensive collection of jewellery features 80 glittering pieces from Annoushka, a British brand favoured by the Princess of Wales, is also on the website.

Prices range from £295 for a gold chain bracelet to a £29,000 marguerite cocktail necklace.

Everything sold on the website is screened by Hardly Ever Worn It for authenticity.

Established in 2012, Hardly Ever Worn, based in Marylebone.

It's previously collaborated with various household names, playing a key role in Sotheby's first ever luxury handbag and accessories auction in 2020.

Additionally, HEWI previously partnered with British Vogue to host an online auction of items from the wardrobes of 23 supermodels, including Kate Moss and Gigi Hadid, with proceeds going to charity.

Introduced in the US in September 2020, and later in Europe in June 2022, Luxury Stores at Amazon showcases both established and emerging luxury fashion and beauty brands, such as Altuzarra, Eudon Choi, Elie Saab and Dr Barbara Sturm.

The collaboration features designer handbags by Chanel, Gucci, Valentino Garavani, Hermes and more

Models Ikram Abdi (left) and Noel Capri (right) star in the new campaign shot at Barbican Conservatory

Noel Capri showcases matching pearl jewellery by Chanel

The coveted products extend to shoes and accessories, including a L'Alingi Love bag and Giuseppe Zanotti embellished heels

Customers can access the latest collections and exclusive items from luxury labels, accompanied by fast and free delivery.

Collections on the site are sold directly by brands and designers, allowing them independent control over inventory, selection and pricing, according to Amazon.

where Amazon invites customers to discover 'luxury finds, loved before'.



This seventies-inspired look is completed with a Saint Laurent tote The duo showcases summer-ready ensembles from the Amazon x HEWI collection Noel Capri wears a party-ready jacquard co-ord by Dolce & Gabbana Models Ikram Abdi (right) and Noel Capri (left) look flawless in the new campaign Ruth Diaz, vice president of Amazon Fashion Europe, emphasised that the collaboration with HEWI expands the site's offerings, providing customers with a broader selection of brands and styles. 'We're always looking to innovate and engage with our diverse customers, and launching pre-owned goods allows us to do just that, whilst also creating an opportunity for us to offer our customers accessible luxury,' said Ms Diaz. Meanwhile, Tatiana Wolter Ferguson, CEO of HEWI, added that Amazon Luxury Stores provide increased visibility for luxury resale. 'Our collaboration with Amazon is a testament to our commitment to making high-end circular fashion accessible to a diverse and wide-reaching audience. 'By joining one of the world's most trusted marketplaces, we are able to bring this to fruition, enabling more people to experience the joy of resale.' Shot against foliage and flowers in a dramatic hothouse and plush garden setting, models Ikram Abdi and Noel Capri are resplendent in a colourful collection of Hardly Ever Worn It's desirable brands.

Luxury Stores at Amazon announced the arrival of Hardly Ever Worn It with a spring campaign,