Jenna Johnson and her husband Val Chmerkovskiy put on a loved-up display at the Make-Up Artists and Hair Stylists Guild Awards on Sunday.

The Dancing with the Stars pros couldn't keep their hands off of each other and even shared a sweet kiss in front of the cameras while posing for photos on the red carpet.

For the 11th annual award show at The Beverly Hilton in Los Angeles, the brunette bombshell, 29, wore a strapless black dress with a dramatic thigh-high slit adorned with voluminous ruffles to highlight her toned legs.

Chmerkovskiy, 37, donned an all-black suit over a low, scoop-neck T-shirt to complement his wife's stunning outfit.

She wore pointed-toe pumps with a metallic, sharp heel and accessorized with dazzling diamond jewelry.

Jenna Johnson and her husband Val Chmerkovskiy put on a loved-up display at the Make-Up Artists and Hair Stylists Guild Awards on Sunday.

The Dancing with the Stars pros couldn't keep their hands off of each other and even shared a sweet kiss in front of the cameras while posing for photos on the red carpet. The couple complemented each other as they wore matching, all-black outfits

For the 11th annual award show at The Beverly Hilton in Los Angeles, the brunette bombshell, 29, wore a strapless black dress with a dramatic thigh-high slit adorned with voluminous ruffles to highlight her toned legs

She had her brunette hair styled in a chic updo with tendrils framing her face.

Another star at the gathering of artistry and talent was Rachael Harris, 56.

She was pictured at the award show wearing a reflective, silver and black scaled minidress.

The Goosebumps actress matched the chic blazer dress with a pair of sheer tights and platform, patent leather heels.

She wore her blonde hair down in soft waves and sported a pair of chic, black-framed glasses.

On the red carpet, she posed for a photo besides Cheryl Hines, 58.

The Curb Your Enthusiasm wore a stunning scoop-neck tea dress with a bow-style bust and keyhole cutout.

She completed her look with a pair of black, strappy heels and a glittering, gold clutch.

Rachael Harris, 56, was also spotted at the award show wearing a reflective, silver and black scaled minidress

The Goosebumps actress matched the chic blazer dress with a pair of sheer tights and platform, patent leather heels

On the red carpet, she posed for a photo besides Cheryl Hines, 58

The Curb Your Enthusiasm wore a stunning scoop-neck tea dress with a bow-style bust and keyhole cutout

She completed her look with a pair of black, strappy heels and a glittering, gold clutch

The Boulet Brothers' Dragula stars Dracmorda and Swanthula also attended the ceremony in matching looks ahead of winning the award for Best Makeup.

The dynamic duo looked striking in blood red, metallic gowns and statement necklaces with teardrop gems.

They styled their silvery tresses in voluminous updos and rocked sultry makeup.

LuAndra Whitehurst, Alexei Dmitriew and Samantha Ward were also at the event as nominees for their collective work on Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3.

LaLisa Turner, Moira Frazier, Denise Baker, and Ryan Randall posed together at the event as they showed off their matching, monochromatic outfits. They were nominated for their work on The Big Nailed It Baking Challenge.

Mayan Lopez, 27, was also spotted in attendance in a chic, satin number with a sexy keyhole cutout.

The actress, who is the daughter of George Lopez, donned black netted heels adorned in circular mirrors.

She styled her hair into a voluminous topknot with money pieces framing her face.

The Boulet Brothers' Dragula stars Dracmorda and Swanthula also attended the ceremony in matching looks. The dynamic duo looked striking in blood red, metallic gowns and statement necklaces with teardrop gems

LuAndra Whitehurst, Alexei Dmitriew and Samantha Ward were also at the event as nominees for their collective work on Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3

LaLisa Turner, Moira Frazier, Denise Baker, and Ryan Randall posed together at the event as they showed off their matching, monochromatic outfits as they were nominated for their work on The Big Nailed It Baking Challenge

Mayan Lopez, 27, was also spotted in attendance in a chic, satin number with a sexy keyhole cutout

Jane Galli donned a sexy black jumpsuit with an intricate sequined design and a plunging neckline.

The makeup artist, who was nominated in the Best Contemporary Makeup for her work in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3, paired her look with sheer opera gloves and completed her look with a sparkling purse and shoes.

Jane Galli donned a sexy black jumpsuit with an intricate sequined design and a plunging neckline.

Vlada Haggerty looked stunning at the event in a green plaid dress and a contrasting, bold red lip.

Marion Rogers, Joe Matke and Brittany Spaulding also posed together on the red carpet as they showed off their equally dazzling and sparkling ensembles.

Lopez later posed for a group photo with award winners Orlando Marin, Alyssa Morgan, Kerry Herta and Jason Collins.

Marla Gibbs looked incredible as she posed on the red carpet in a pink, floral dress teamed with a violet, sequin shawl.

The 92-year-old actress and singer complemented her look with pink statement earrings and a black purse with the imagery of flowers.

Jane Galli donned a sexy black jumpsuit with an intricate sequined design and a plunging neckline. Vlada Haggerty looked stunning at the event in a green plaid dress and a contrasting, bold red lip

Marion Rogers, Joe Matke and Brittany Spaulding also posed together on the red carpet as they showed off their equally dazzling and sparkling ensembles

Lopez later posed for a group photo with award winners Orlando Marin, Alyssa Morgan, Kerry Herta and Jason Collins

Marla Gibbs looked incredible as she posed on the red carpet in a pink, floral dress teamed with a violet, sequin shawl. The 92-year-old actress and singer complemented her look with pink statement earrings and a black purse with the imagery of flowers

Felix Fox, Zabrina Wanjiru Matiru and Krista Hann showed off their bright smiles and edgy-chic ensembles on the red carpet.

The trio were nominated for Best Makeup alongside Werner Pretorius.

Gila Bois, Lindsay Pilkey, Leah Ehman and Kiara Desjarlais also posed for a chic group photo ahead of the event.

The team behind Monster High 2 were nominated in the Best Makeup category.

Danielle Dubinsky, Stephanie Paugh, Karlye Buff, and Alexis Reyes looked stunning as they all posed in matching, all-black ensembles on the red carpet.

The group was nominated for Best Hair Styling for their work on The Bold and the Beautiful.

Felix Fox, Zabrina Wanjiru Matiru and Krista Hann showed off their bright smiles and edgy-chic ensembles on the red carpet. The trio were nominated for Best Makeup alongside Werner Pretorius

Gila Bois, Lindsay Pilkey, Leah Ehman and Kiara Desjarlais also posed for a chic group photo ahead of the event. The team behind Monster High 2 were nominated in the Best Makeup category

Danielle Dubinsky, Stephanie Paugh, Karlye Buff, and Alexis Reyes looked stunning as they all posed in matching, all-black ensembles on the red carpet. The group was nominated for Best Hair Styling for their work on The Bold and the Beautiful

Justin Raleigh, Ozzy Alvarez, Kelsey Berk, and Jonathan Shroyer showed off their chic, individual styles as they posed together for a group photo

Justin Raleigh, Ozzy Alvarez, Kelsey Berk, and Jonathan Shroyer showed off their chic, individual styles as they posed together for a group photo.

They were nominated for Best Special Makeup Effects for their work on Rebel Moon: Part One – A Child of Fire.

Alvarez, Raleigh and Berk were also nominated for the same award in the television category for The Fall of the House of Usher.