A woman arrested on suspicion of murdering three children in Bristol was 'having a hard time' with her newborn baby, neighbours said last night, as they paid tribute to the 'lovely' kids.

Police officers tragically found the youngsters dead at a home on Blaise Walk, Sea Mills, in the early hours of Sunday morning after receiving a concern for welfare call.

The 42-year-old woman, said locally to be a Sudanese national who has lived in the city since 2017, was then taken to hospital where she is being held in police custody.

While Avon and Somerset Police have not revealed any details about the children, locals believe a boy, aged around eight, a girl, thought to be around four, and a baby boy, between six-months to a year old, were found in the property.

One woman, wished to remain anonymous, said said: 'She was lovely, her kids were lovely, they were nice people. I think she was having a hard time with her newborn.'

Police have arrested a woman on suspicion of murder after three children were found dead at an address in Blaise Walk, Sea Mills in Bristol. Pictured: Police at the scene on Sunday

Officers gather at the scene in Sea Mills, Bristol on Sunday after three children were found dead

The neighbour said that the two eldest children had attended the local Sea Mills primary school. The school announced it would remain closed on this morning and reopen at 1.30pm.

A 42-year-old Bristol taxi driver said he had last seen the mother two weeks ago. He said: 'She was happy. Her kids were all happy.'

The man said the family were part of the Sudanese community in Bristol. He added: 'She is a very nice person. It is very sad.'

Others described the woman as 'really gentle' and 'really lovely' who 'always had a smile on her face'.

The force has not confirmed the name of the woman or her relationship to the children who were pronounced dead at the scene shortly after officers arrived at around 12.40am on Sunday. The children's cause of death is yet to be confirmed.

A heavy police presence remained in the area much of yesterday, with photos showing part of the road cordoned off, with multiple police cars and a forensic team on the scene.

A gathering at a local church was held in memory of the children last night, locals added, while a local playground announced it would be closed today.

Tributes have since flooded in from those within the Sea Mills community who have been left rocked by the tragedy.

The force has not confirmed the name of the woman or her relationship to the children. Pictured: Officers at the scene in Blaise Walk on Sunday

A police cordon seen in place on Blaise Walk in Sea Mills near Bristol after three children were found dead

A police cordon in place in front of a home in Sea Mills, Bristol on Sunday afternoon

Neighbourhood Chief Inspector Vicks Hayward-Melen said: 'This is an incredibly tragic and heart-breaking incident in which three children have sadly died.

'My sincere condolences go to the children's loved ones and we will be ensuring they are offered support through our family liaison unit.

'We believe this to be an isolated incident and there is no further risk to the wider community, however officers will remain at the scene to provide reassurance to anyone who has any questions or concerns.

'Over the coming days, residents can expect to see an increased police presence and we thank them for their co-operation during this time.'

Police said the Independent Office for Police Conduct had been informed about the incident due to 'prior police contact'.

Mayor of Bristol Martin Reeves wrote on Facebook: 'It's almost impossible to find the words to describe this afternoon's devastating news from Sea Mills, Bristol

'My thoughts are with all who knew these three young children – we will be working with schools, the community, and the police to support people.'

Darren Jones, MP for Bristol North West added on social media: 'I'm deeply saddened by this tragic news from Sea Mills today.

'My thoughts and prayers are with the friends and family of the children, and my thanks go to our emergency services who responded. Avon and Somerset Police will remain in the area but consider this to be an isolated incident.'

The three children were pronounced dead at the scene, Avon and Somerset Police said today. Pictured: Police at the home

A police van seen earlier on Sunday after officers were called to the scene at 12.40am

Avon and Somerset Police said the discovery was made after officers attended a concern for welfare call in Blaise Walk, Sea Mills. Pictured: Police at the scene earlier today

Local councillor Henry Michallat, who represents Sea Mills said: 'I am deeply shocked and saddened by the news coming from Sea Mills today.

'My thoughts and prayers are with the family and friends of the children at this sad and difficult time. I thank emergency service personnel who have responded.'

Avon and Somerset Police Crime Commissioner Mark Shelford added: 'I am deeply saddened by the news of the deaths of three children today in Sea Mills.

'The deaths of these children is heart breaking. My thoughts are with all those who knew and cared for these children and with the local community, who I know will be impacted.

'The police have made an arrest and believe this to be an isolated incident. They have assessed that there is no further risk to the wider community.

'There are questions to be asked about how such an appalling event has occurred and what could have been done to prevent it, but for now, I ask that people allow the police to investigate.'

A statement from Avon and Somerset Police said: 'Officers attended a concern for welfare call in Blaise Walk, in Sea Mills, on Sunday February 18 at around 12.40am.

'Tragically, three young children inside the property were pronounced dead a short time later.

Police have arrested a woman on suspicion of murder after three children were found dead at an address in Blaise Walk, Bristol

'A 42-year-old woman has been arrested on suspicion of murder and she is in police custody at hospital.

'As is usual in these circumstances we have notified the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC), due to prior police contact.'

An IOPC spokesperson said: 'We were notified this afternoon about this tragic incident in Bristol by Avon and Somerset Police, who advised us that there had been prior police contact earlier this month.

'We have requested a paper referral with further information about the prior contact and once received, we will assess it to determine whether further action is required from us.'

The community in Sea Mills has been left reeling from the incident. The area's local community playgroup will remained closed tomorrow as a result of the tragedy.

Writing on Facebook Sea Mills Community Playgroup said: 'Due to the tragic events in our community today, playgroup will be cancelled tomorrow morning.

'Our hearts go out to the family and their friends, neighbours, school friends and wider community.'