It's a classic musical adored by generations of theatregoers.

But theatre bosses staging the latest revival of My Fair Lady were so concerned it may upset some members of the audience that they attached a trigger warning to the show.

The charming Lerner and Loewe musical, including a string of timeless hit songs, tells the story of how Cockney flower girl Eliza Doolittle is given speech lessons by Professor Henry Higgins so she may pass as a society lady.

But anyone looking to buy a ticket online for the production at the Leeds Playhouse is warned: 'My Fair Lady is set in Edwardian London and true to Lerner and Loewe's book includes depictions of high society Britain, classism and sexism.'

The warning comes under a section entitled 'Triggers and Advisories'.

The Opera North and Leeds Playhouse production later this year is the latest example of a number of controversial theatre 'trigger warnings' that have attracted widespread criticism.

Theatre bosses at Leeds Playhouse were so concerned its production of My Fair Lady may upset some members of the audience that they attached a trigger warning to the show

Anyone looking to buy a ticket online for the production at the Leeds Playhouse is warned: 'My Fair Lady is set in Edwardian London and true to Lerner and Loewe's book includes depictions of high society Britain, classism and sexism'

My Fair Lady is based on the George Bernard Shaw's play Pygmalion. A recent production of Pygmalion at London's Old Vic had the warning it contained 'portrayals of abuse, abusive language and coercive control'.

While a revival of The Sound of Music at the Chichester Festival Theatre last July warned ticket buyers it touches on 'Nazi Germany and the annexation of Austria.' Adding that some 'may find certain themes distressing.'

Earlier this month actor Ralph Fiennes called on theatre trigger warnings to be scrapped, commenting that 'the impact of theatre should be that you're shocked and you should be disturbed.' Adding: 'I don't think you should be prepared for these things'.

Speaking today on BBC One's Sunday With Laura Kuenssberg, actor Matt Smith backed the plea to scrap the warnings.

He said: 'I agree with Ralph utterly and completely.'

The star of Doctor Who and The Crown said: 'That's why we go to the theatre isn't it?

'To be shocked, to be arrested out of ourselves, to recognise ourselves in front and with an audience.

'I also agree that if there are strobes or whatever - there are some things it (warnings) makes sense.

'But I worry sometimes that we're moving towards a sort of sanitised version of everything and we're stripping the danger and the invention and the ingenuity out of everything.

'Isn't art meant to be dangerous?

The 1964 film adaptation of My Fair Lady starring Audrey Hepburn (pictured) who plyed Eliza Dolittle

'It's like, I always thought that was one of the great things of doing Doctor Who is that you scare children but in a controlled way.

'But you did scare them.

'I mean imagine going to kids watching Doctor Who "by the way this might scare you". No, I'm not into it.'

My Fair Lady debuted on Broadway in 1956 with Rex Harrison and Julie Andrews in the starring roles. The 1964 film version saw Audrey Hepburn take over the role of Eliza and won Oscars for best film, director and Harrison was named best actor.

There have been numerous theatre revivals of the popular classic ever since.

The Leeds Playhouse has been contacted for comment.