Halle Bailey turned heads on Sunday night at the 2024 People's Choice Awards in Santa Monica, California.

The 23-year-old new mother — who welcomed a son late last year — put on a busty display just over a month after giving birth.

The songstress wore a plunging blue gown speckled with a green abstract pattern throughout.

She looked gorgeous as she showed off her slim and fit figure in the number, which had subtle ruching and hugged her waist.

Halle pulled her long, locked hair into a half up-half down style with sleek and wavy fringe pieces hanging from a bun.

Halle Bailey turned heads on Sunday night at the 2024 People's Choice Awards in Santa Monica, California

The 23-year-old new mother — who welcomed a son late last year — put on a busty display just over a month after giving birth

Bailey's visage was elevated in a face of matte makeup with a smooth finish.

She wore smokey blue eyeshadow on her lids, complementing the tone of her ensemble.

The music artist shocked fans last month when she announced the birth of her first child, following months of pregnancy speculation.

The actress kept the baby news to herself throughout 2023, and only updated fans after the New Year.

Sharing a snapshot of her, her baby, and her boyfriend DDG's hands, she added a sweet caption.

The image showed the newborn with a small gold bracelet that had his name, Halo, engraved.

Bailey wrote in the January 6 caption, 'even though we’re a few days into the new year, the greatest thing that 2023 could have done for me, was bring me my son..'

'Welcome to the world my halo,' the proud parent gushed. 'The world is desperate to know you.'

People's Choice Awards 2024 Winners At a Glance

Music Male artist of the year: Jung Kook (WINNER) Female artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Male country artist of the year: Jelly Roll (WINNER) Female country artist of the year: Lainey Wilson (WINNER) Male Latin artist of the year: Bad Bunny (WINNER) Female Latin artist of the year: Shakira (WINNER) Pop artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Hip-hop artist of the year: Nicki Minaj (WINNER) R&B artist of the year: Beyoncé (WINNER) New artist of the year: Ice Spice (WINNER) Group/duo of the year: Stray Kids (WINNER) Song of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, “Vampire” (WINNER) Album of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, Guts (WINNER) Collaboration song of the year: Nicki Minaj & Ice Spice with Aqua, “Barbie World” (WINNER) Concert tour of the year: Taylor Swift, The Eras Tour (WINNER) Movies Movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Action movie of the year: The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Drama movie of the year: Oppenheimer (WINNER) Male movie star of the year: Ryan Gosling, Barbie (WINNER) Female movie star of the year: Margot Robbie, Barbie (WINNER) Margot Robbie is a leading contender for female movie star of the year for Barbie Action movie star of the year: Rachel Zegler, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie star of the year: Jennifer Lawrence, No Hard Feelings (WINNER) Drama movie star of the year Jenna Ortega, Scream VI (WINNER) Movie performance of the year America Ferrera, Barbie (WINNER) TV Show of the year: Grey’s Anatomy (WINNER) Comedy show of the year: Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Drama show of the year: The Last of Us (WINNER) Sci-fi/fantasy show of the year: Loki (WINNER) Reality show of the year: The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition show of the year: The Voice (WINNER) Bingeworthy show of the year: The Summer I Turned Pretty (WINNER) Male TV star of the year: Pedro Pascal, The Last of Us (WINNER) Female TV star of the year: Selena Gomez, Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Comedy TV star of the year: Jeremy Allen White, The Bear (WINNER) Drama TV star of the year: Jennifer Aniston, The Morning Show (WINNER) TV performance of the year Billie Eilish, Swarm (WINNER) Reality TV star of the year Khloé Kardashian, The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition contestant of the year Ariana Madix, Dancing with the Stars (WINNER) Daytime talk show of the year The Kelly Clarkson Show (WINNER) Nighttime talk show of the year The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon (WINNER) Host of the year Jimmy Fallon, That’s My Jam (WINNER) Pop Culture Social celebrity of the year Taylor Swift (WINNER) Comedy act of the year Chris Rock, Selective Outrage (WINNER) Athlete of the year Travis Kelce (WINNER) Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

The songstress wore a plunging blue gown speckled with a green abstract pattern throughout

The music artist shocked fans last month when she announced the birth of her first child, following months of pregnancy speculation. The actress kept the baby news to herself throughout 2023, and only updated fans after the New Year

There was no shortage of A-listers at the 49th annual People's Choice Awards ceremony, which was held at the Barker Hangar.

Barbie and Oppenheimer, dubbed 'Barbenheimer,' has ruled awards season and Sunday's show was no exception as they earned the most nods in the movie categories.

And Taylor Swift led musicians with five nominations.

In the television categories, Only Murders In The Building earned the most nominations including nods for Selena Gomez, Meryl Streep, and Steve Martin.