Melbourne Cup winner Verry Elleegant has tragically died just days before the race named in her honour is set to kick off the Sydney Group 1 races for the year.

The 11-time Group 1 winner passed away 'due to complications giving birth to her foal', trainer Chris Waller has confirmed.

She had been sent to stud in France after concluding her remarkable racing career in Australia. Regrettably, the foal also did not survive.

Verry Elleegant was the 2020-21 Australian horse of the year and won 16 of 42 starts, including 11 Group One victories in an outstanding career.

Just last month, the Australian Turf Club made a significant decision to rename a historic Group 1 race in tribute to her. '

Formerly known as the Chipping Norton Stakes, a prestigious event with a $1million prize, it is now officially named the Verry Elleegant Stakes.

Scheduled for Saturday, March 2, it traditionally marks the first Sydney Group 1 race of the year.

Jockey James McDonald riding Verry Elleegant wins the Melbourne Cup in 2021

Mighty mare!



Verry Elleegant wins the 2021 Lexus Melbourne Cup is superb style from Incentivise under @mcacajamez for @cwallerracing at @FlemingtonVRC… pic.twitter.com/RzL3PcDpbs — At The Races (@AtTheRaces) November 2, 2021

Trainer Chris Waller said 'the news is just filtering through to stable staff now and other close connections who are coming to terms with this tragic news'.

'She was in fantastic hands on a farm who did all they could for her, and we would like to thank them for their efforts which we will be forever grateful for,' Waller said.

'We all saw the courage she had on the racetrack over many seasons, and she will never be forgotten by those close to her as well as the wider racing public who followed her career and loved her so much.'

Horse racing fans have been left shocked by the news and have taken to social media to pay tribute to the champion mare who claimed the 2020 Caulfield Cup and 2021 Melbourne Cup.

'This is so unutterably sad.. thoughts with all those closest to the wonderful mare Verry Elleegant,' one posted.

RIP CHAMP.. Verry Elleegant gone but will never be forgotton pic.twitter.com/FWZkKNTsq3 — Chris Moore (@Lion_Tamer_Nz) February 18, 2024

The ATC is devastated to learn of the passing of Verry Elleegant and her foal overnight. 💔



We send our thoughts to her owners, carers, Chris Waller Racing, James McDonald, and all of the stable staff involved in her illustrious career. ATC will proudly honour the champion mare… pic.twitter.com/kOfGJNh2F5 — Australian Turf Club (@aus_turf_club) February 19, 2024

'Just awful news. What a champion she was. One of our very best in the modern era. May she RIP,' added another.

'Enigmatic early in her career, and a champion by the end of it. RIP VE,' another shared.

Verry Elleegant was foaled in New Zealand in 2015 and went on to have a hugely impressive racing career under Waller.

She was known for her versatility, excelling in both sprint and staying races and enjoyed memorable wins at the Australian Oaks, Caulfield Cup, and the Tancred Stakes - along with the Melbourne Cup victory of 2021.

Trainer Chris Waller confirmed the sad news that champion mare Verry Elleegant had died

While Verry Elleegant completed the rare Caulfield Cup/Melbourne Cup double, she was also adept at sprint races as well

Part owner John O'Neill spoke on behalf of connections to SEN radio.

'It's horrendous, absolutely horrendous,' O'Neill said.

'She gave us the most joy, from a racing aspect, of all time.

'She's died giving birth. They were trying to save her but that hasn't worked out. Unfortunately the foal has passed away too.'

Champion trainer Wayne Hawkes also paid tribute to the great mare.

'You don't realise how good these horses are until you look back on what they've done,' he told SEN.

'You're up with the great names when you're winning double digit Group 1s. '