SHOPPING – Contains affiliated content. Products featured in this Mail Best article are selected by our shopping writers. If you make a purchase using links on this page, Dailymail.co.uk will earn an affiliate commission. Click here for more information.

Healthy, hydrated and glowing skin is the goal for most of us all year round, but especially during the summer months — and that’s exactly what Charlotte Tilbury’s latest moisturiser offers.

Charlotte’s Magic Water Cream is the lightweight, gel-based younger sister of the iconic original Magic Cream (of which one pot sells every two minutes). Since its release in August, customers have been hailing it as a 'miracle cream' that gives you 'glass skin'.

Charlotte Tilbury Magic Water Cream, 50ml If you're looking for a way to keep your skin hydrated this summer, Charlotte Tilbury's Magic Water Cream will sort you out. It's gel-cream formula will leave your skin looking dewy, smooth, firm and fresh and provide constant moisture for 100 hours. Apply it in the morning and apply it at night after cleansing. Shop

The cream promises to reduce the appearance of pores by 54 per cent in 28 seconds and to reduce redness by 100 per cent in 28 days

Alongside delivering a ‘fresh water glow’, the cream promises to reduce the appearance of pores by 54 per cent in 28 seconds and to reduce redness by 100 per cent in 28 days.

It’s the niacinamide, oil balancing extract, and biopeptide complex that does this, and fans of the cream confirm these specific effects in their reviews.

One shopper explained how, ‘as someone with enlarged pores’, they ‘found it really helped to skim over them and thus make them less noticeable’.

So, what makes it so different from the OG Magic Cream? Mainly, the ingredients. Both contain vitamins C and E and hyaluronic acid, but the Magic Water Cream contains clever Waterlocking Fusion Technology.

Not only does the product work wonders on your skin, but it also improves the look of your makeup

This is shorthand for a mix of super hydrating ingredients, including Hydagen, Aquaporin and Beta Glucan Blend, that will train the skin barrier to retain more water instantly and over time. It’s this that allows the moisturiser to hydrate your skin for 100 hours.

Also, the texture is different. The original Magic Cream has a luxuriously thick and buttery whipped texture because it contains shea butter and rosehip oil, whereas the Magic Water Cream is described as a ‘bouncy gel-cream’ texture. Its lightweight nature is what helps it to balance combination skin, and the product has received rave reviews from those with oily skin.

One said, 'Works amazing on my dry skin. Makes me glow'. Another added, 'Have been using for two weeks and people have complimented my skin already, it feels amazing and has a nice smell! I am hooked!'

The original Magic Cream was the first product Charlotte Tilbury created, and after she released it in 2013, it sold out within hours

Not only does the product work wonders on your skin, but it also improves the look of your makeup. One reviewer said it makes ‘the perfect primer’ and ‘made the makeup application smoother’, while another said it made their makeup ‘blend seamlessly’ onto their face.

The original Magic Cream was the first product Charlotte Tilbury created, and after she released it in 2013, it sold out within hours.

The brand then rapidly shot to success with the support of supermodels, celebrities and beauty fans. It's not just the Magic Cream that has gained cult status; it's the makeup, too. The brand sells one Pillow Talk product every six seconds.

Now, it has 6.3 million followers on Instagram, thousands of five-star reviews, and has won more than 300 global awards.

Charlotte Tilbury: Our top picks