One of the men who interrupted the Super Bowl by running onto the field has been revealed to be a TikTok star from Florida.

Alex Gonzalez was pictured being escorted out of Allegiant Stadium by police on Sunday night after the high-profile invasion and had his TikTok handle fx_alexg written on his chest along with the tagline 'set and forget'.

He has approaching 100k followers on the social media platform, flies by private jet and markets himself as giving trading advice to followers.

Gonzalez shared a number of videos from Las Vegas in the week preceding the Super Bowl, which Kansas City Chiefs went on to edge in overtime against San Francisco 49ers.

He was one of multiple people who ran out onto the field during a third-down completion by Patrick Mahomes to Mecole Hardman.

Alex Gonzalez, one of the Super Bowl field invaders (left) has been identified through his TikTok handle written across his chest - here he is pictured alongside security

Gonzalez was rushed from the field having broken through the barricades

Gonzalez shares videos about trading and often boasts about his lavish lifestyle

Another man pictured being taken away by police also had 'set and forget' written on his bare chest but he is yet to be identified.

The men were immediately tackled and detained by security at Allegiant Stadium.

Gonzalez's videos on TikTok show him portraying a life of luxury. In one clip, he says he has flown to New York privately simply to take a picture under a sign before jetting home again.

In another, walking through a Las Vegas casino, he says: 'I feel like I've come to Vegas 100 times. These machines... ah I don't know. Hate the slot machines but I do like some of the table games. It's a love-hate relationship.'

In one, he silently eats some crisps while looking outside of an apartment window.

Despite his follower count number around 92k, many of Gonzalez's videos from Super Bowl week in various VIP areas had fewer than 1000 views.

Last year, the viewership of the big game reached 113million and this edition could be even higher.

No doubt Gonzalez's plan was to raise his profile on one of the biggest platforms on the planet, albeit illegally.

The field invaders are not the first to temporarily stop the Super Bowl by entering the field of play.

Five men dragged the shirtless TikTok star away after he ran on during a third down

Gonzalez appeared relaxed while speaking to the man who escorted him in handcuffs

Another man, as yet unidentified, was pictured also being escorted away by police

Gonzalez is seen here at an airport and says he regularly takes private jets

In fact, two previous Kansas City Super Bowl appearances have had people come from the stands onto the field during the game.

Yuri Andrade was charged with trespassing after attempting to streak during the Super Bowl in 2021, when the Chiefs lost to Tom Brady and the Buccaneers.

During the last 49ers-Chiefs Super Bowl in 2020, model Kelly Kay was detained for also trying to streak.