This is the inside of a rescue centre which has been dubbed XL Bully Island.

Angus Council has launched a probe into Happas Canine Centre, near Dundee, after a flood of complaints that dogs have been mistreated there.

Yhough 'XL Bully Island' already houses dogs, the owners of the 'dangerous' kennels - Jeremy Barron and Kerryanne Shaw - don't have the necessary licences.

Despite this, Ms Shaw has posted on social media asking for volunteers to help renovate the kennels, offering 'bully kisses in return'.

Photos showing the updates to the kennels show metal shutters in the dog pens

Images and videos show the floors have been painted black and the walls are being painted bright blue as the centre prepares to open

Pictured is the exterior of the Happas Canine Centre in 2023

Kerryanne Shaw, from Glasgow, owns the All Bullie Charity Rescue

At least two XL Bully dogs are already at the site, with a third due to be rehomed.

Ms Shaw, from Glasgow, owns the All Bullie Charity Rescue and received over £21,000 in donations to renovate the kennels as a designated XL Bully shelter.

The 38-year-old initially refused to disclose the location due to receiving 'death threats', but MailOnline revealed the kennel in question is the Happas Canine Centre, located near Dundee.

MailOnline interviewed those who left their beloved pets at the site who claim they returned with no tails, sores on their bodies and caked in 'faeces and urine' - many said their pet was like a 'different dog' upon collection.

The GoFundMe page raised thousands of pounds to fix up the kennels in preparation to house the XL Bully dogs - but according to the owner Jeremy Barron's social media comments, the site just needs a 'lick of paint'.

READ MORE - SNP were warned that Scotland would be a dumping ground for XL Bullies Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/news/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

When approached by MailOnline, he said 'there will always be disgruntled customers' and the 'allegations by internet trolls are unfounded'.

The Angus Courier reported that there are already XL Bully breeds being kept at the centre, and Mr Barron and Ms Shaw insisted they were doing it 'by the book'.

Posting to Facebook last week, Ms Shaw said: 'We're finally getting started on the kennels.

'We still need volunteers near Dundee to help with painting as that's a massive task.

'If you can spare some time to help the rescue dogs and get bully kisses in return? We also provide tea and coffee and snacks.'

While most of the comments were supportive, a few commented that the pens still looked uninviting.

One said: 'Shame there's no natural light for them ' while another added 'make it look less like a prison for dogs'.

Reacting to the comments, Ms Shaw said: 'Turning off comments as too many people wanting to p*** on peoples cornflakes and I can be bothered.

'This is not the finished product we just thought we would update everyone on the work that has been done so far. While opinions are welcome, it's a bit disappointing people are trashing it without seeing the end result.'

She said the site should be finished in the coming days and the silver shutter pictured will lead to an outside run for the dogs.

Another owner left her beloved pooch in the kennel for two weeks and was shocked at the weight loss upon collecting her. Pictured is the dog before and after her stay

The owner said her dog's claws were cut 'almost to the quick'

A dog owner told MailOnline about her experience when she placed three dogs in the kennels in September 2023 and shared photos of their injuries (pictured are urine burns on her dog)

Another local owner who put her two XL Bully dogs - a mother and a male pup - in April for a weekend said they came back smelling so bad she couldn't let them into her house

Mr Barron's animal boarding licence ran out at the end of December and his renewal application hasn't yet been considered by the council.

Meanwhile, a rehoming licence application from Ms Shaw won't be considered until March 28.

According to the kennel's website, it currently has the capacity to house 56 dogs and 18 cats and includes a 'dedicated hydrotherapy pool area for dogs requiring help with injury rehabilitation.'

READ MORE -Previously defiant XL Bully owner whose dogs mauled grandmother to death in front of his own son says he now SUPPORTS ban after previously saying 'nobody tells me what to do with my dogs' Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/news/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_2 - ->

Previously, photos of the site seen by MailOnline showed dogs believed to be Mr Barron's golden retrievers - of which he is a breeder - crammed into small crates indoors or kept in sparse outdoor cages.

Other photos showed dirty bowls empty of food and water and floors covered in dog hair, dog waste and shredded paper.

The kennels where the dogs are kept are shown in videos shared to Ms Shaw's Facebook of dogs from her rescue charity housed at the site, kept in sparse pens with concrete flooring.

Dog owners who have housed their dogs there in the past also shared photos with MailOnline showing the condition of their pets when they were reunited.

One photo shows an injured dog with bleeding legs after she stayed at the site.

Other posts and reviews claim dogs were returned to them with fractured or missing tails and one person said her dog came back with a fractured toe after staying there for two days.

A dog owner who asked to remain anonymous due to receiving threats online told MailOnline about her experience when she placed her dogs in the kennels for three weeks in September 2023 and shared photos of their injuries.

Upon collecting her three-year-old male dog from the kennel, she 'immediately' took him to the vet, and claims he lost 2kg in the time he had stayed there.

The GoFundMe set up by the All Bullie Charity rescue has received thousands of pounds

Another dog owner who kennelled three dogs at the site for a week told MailOnline her dogs were 'thin and scared' after staying there and she suspected they hadn't been fed the special food she had provided for their allergies.

She said: 'I had a work trip planned and our usual excellent kennel had to cancel our booking at the last minute. I managed to get our dogs in at Happas and we had no choice but to leave them there.

'Upon our return, we were told they weren't expecting us until the next day - which was not what we had arranged.

'They brought the dogs out and we were horrified. All three were soaking wet with urine and faeces. Our white bulldog was the worst, he was covered with dried faeces and diarrhoea.

'The other two were just as bad when they were examined. They were thin and scared. The smell was horrific, and they were hoarse from barking.

'After bathing them at home, feeding them and calming them down, we were furious.'

Another owner left her beloved pooch in the kennel for two weeks and was shocked at the weight loss upon collecting her.

Sharing photos of the difference in weight, she told MailOnline how she could feel 'her ribs and spine clearly' and the dog had lost 6kg in two weeks.

The owner said: 'She couldn't get away quick enough - not like her at all. She was jumpy and a bag of nerves for months.

'When it's time to clip her nails it's like trying to restrain a terrified bull - she screeches and even bites. She's completely petrified.'

A woman who left her golden retriever dog at the kennel for 10 days said her dog came home and 'just stared at me, shaking and foaming at the mouth'.

A man who put four of his dogs in the kennel said one of them came back with a fractured tail and the rest had lost weight and suffered urine burns.

He left his two terriers there - one of which was elderly with hip problems - along with two larger dogs. He asked for the large dogs to be kept in a separate kennel, as one was seven months old and too boisterous to be kept with the smaller ones.

The GoFundMe page for the XL Bully shelter says the thousands of pounds donated will be spent on 'essential improvement and upgrades'.

It reads: 'I run All Bullie Charity rescue - we are a bull breed specific charity and specialise in large bull breeds, many of whom are being targeted by the XL Bully ban.

'We have been given a fantastic opportunity to take over a kennels establishment in Scotland and move on site to work with our dogs daily.

The 38-year-old refused to disclose the location due to receiving 'death threats'

'This will be a safe haven for our dogs who cannot be rehomed due to behaviour or risk of the ban coming into force in Scotland, as well as allowing us to personally assess and rehab dogs before placing them into homes.

'The kennel needs some essential improvement and upgrades, and we also need a static caravan for me to live in as well as my own dogs.

'We need to upgrade the shutter system, drainage and heating as well as clearing some ground to create large suitable paddocks for the dogs to enjoy some play time as well as more minor upgrades.

'Please consider donating and help us keep our beautiful dogs safe from euthanasia.'

Speaking about the ban coming to Scotland, she said that if the plans for the centre do fall through, she will focus on helping families who want to keep their dog but cannot afford the exemption process or neutering.

Mr Barron told MailOnline he is not under investigation by the council, and claims the local authority has two dogs residing with him.

He said: 'Allegations by internet trolls are unfounded and yes I was reported to the council and SSPCA, who by duty have to follow up all complaints to them. This has been a few over the last few weeks and every time they have been here they have given me the all clear.

'There will always be disgruntled customers, especially when I have over 1500 bookings a year. I get very little complaints compared to the volume of dogs I have.

'Yes there was an incident where one dog lost a tail this year in a freak accident which happened when a dog pulled a tail though a small gap - a gap allowed for in legislation as less than the size prohibited.

'This was fully investigated by council and changes agreed to be installed over winter maintenance.'

'I have nothing to do with the charity wishing to use the kennels in the future. No lease is signed and won't be signed until the relevant licences have been granted by the council.'

However, a spokesperson for Angus Council said: 'Angus Council has received a number of complaints with regards to a kennels business in the Forfar area and our Animal Health Officer has visited and inspected the premises along with colleagues from the SSPCA as part of an ongoing investigation.'

The council said 'several visits' had been made to check on the progress of requested improvements, adding that 'further work is required'.

It follows the tragic death of Esther Martin, who was mauled to death by two XL Bully dogs in front of her eleven-year-old screaming grandson at the beginning of the month.

It is understood the terrified 68-year-old had issued a warning to her tattooed 'son-in-law' Ashley Warren, 39, but it is claimed the East London wannabe rapper fired back with a foul-mouthed rant: 'No one tells me what to do with my f***ing dogs.'

New rules for XL bully dogs in England and Wales were introduced on December 31, after a spate of deadly attacks.

The intention to make it illegal to breed, sell, advertise, gift, exchange or abandon the dogs was first announced by Rishi Sunak on September 15, with the legislative statutory instruments laid in the Commons on October 31.

However, it was not until January 11 that Humza Yousaf announced plans for a similar ban in Scotland.

He claimed the action was needed because there had been 'a flow of XL bully dogs to Scotland' and criticised the UK Government for announcing its plans 'without any consultation with the Scottish Government'.

Curbs will not come into force in Scotland until February 23, when it will be a criminal offence to breed, sell, abandon or give away an XL bully dog, with penalties of up to six months in jail and/or a fine of up to £5,000.