Bublé sang the song just before Prince Harry made a speech at the gala dinner

This is the moment Meghan Markle burst into laughter as Michael Bublé sang an alternative version of Frank Sinatra's My Way at the Sussexes' Invictus Games send off - including telling Prince Harry 'I think we know to stay the hell out of your way'.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex were attending a lavish gala dinner with 200 guests in Vancouver, Canada last week to wrap up their tour in preparation for the 2025 Winter Invictus Games.

Shortly before a speech by the Duke, Bublé performed a rewritten version of Frank Sinatra's 'My Way' with nods to Prince Harry and Meghan littered throughout.

Meghan laughed when Bublé sang that she 'calls him H, we call him Harry' and then touched the side of his face when he added: 'It's true, Harry it's you. You're follow through opens hope's doorway.'

The Sussexes both chuckled and Meghan leaned in and touched Harry's shoulder as Bublé sang: 'When passions flow, one thing we know, stay the hell out of your way.'

The Sussexes were captured on video footage reacting to Bublé's altered version of Frank Sinatra's My Way

Meghan laughed hard and rubbed the Duke' shoulder when Bublé sang 'I think we know to stay the hell out of your way'

Prince Harry walks to the stage after Bublé's altered version of My Way

Meghan smiles as Prince Harry makes his way to the stage after Michael Bublé serenaded them

The Canadian crooner also took a swipe at Donald Trump when he sang, 'Donald Trump's don't convict-us games', which also drew laughter from the audience.

But the Duke shook his head as Meghan laughed when Bublé sang: 'It's clear the home you hold dear is Montecito'.

The chart-topper also made reference to King Charles' cancer struggle when he sang 'Our healing wishes to your Dad'.

Harry, wearing a dark suit and a black tie, then spoke about the Invictus Games telling the audience that the athletes, who are comprised of injured and sick servicemen and women, embodied 'courage, leadership, and fortitude.'

Meghan, 42, wore a one-shoulder olive green dress by Canadian designer Greta Constantine, a necklace by Logan Hollowell and Manolo Blahnik shoes.

Meghan and Harry had been expected to head home to Montecito, California following three days of Invictus Games events in Whistler and Vancouver but extended their trip by a night to enjoy a party with athletes and organisers.

Although not part of the official schedule and intended to be held away from the media, the gala at the Vancouver Convention Centre was signposted with black and gold Invictus signs.

In his speech, Harry spoke of the Invictus Games and touched on how much he was looking forward to next years event.

He said: 'These games have been so warmly welcomed by our Four Host First Nations, who have opened their arms and land to each of us, not only tonight but in the lead up to and during the Games next year.

'This year will mark ten years of the Invictus Games. The past decade has been a testament to the power of resilience and the unbreakable spirit you all exemplify. And boy have we had fun on the way!

'The Invictus Games are not just a competition; they’re a way of life, a celebration of the human spirit.

'The games provide a platform for us to showcase your abilities, to inspire the world, and honor the sacrifices of those we have lost.

'It is a reminder that we are not defined by our injuries, but by our strength, our commitment, and our ability to overcome adversity.

Harry described the Invictus Games as being about 'the bonds that are built between nations'

'Invictus is not necessarily about winning a medal, but about the bonds that are built between nations; about the shared journey of recovery that competitors and their families are a part of.

'As we continue to prepare for next year, let us remember the words of William Ernest Henley, the poet whose work serves as the namesake for The Invictus Games.

'"I am the master of my fate; I am the captain of my soul." Let us embrace these words, and let us continue to inspire each other, and the world, with courage, with leadership, and with fortitude.'

Around 200 people were in attendance, which began with the Duke and Duchess being led in by representatives from the Tsleil-Waututh Nation who sang and drummed in traditional regalia.

Johnna Sparrow, an Indigenous advisor for the Games, and sister of Chief Wayne Sparrow of the Musqueam Indian Band, gifted the couple with woven blankets for each of their children from the Salish people.

Sparrow said the children could dance with the blankets or wrap themselves in them when their parents are away to remind them that 'their parents are off doing good work.'

The party followed a morning spent at the Hillcrest Community Centre in downtown Vancouver where Harry took part in an adapted wheelchair curling event.

An enthusiastic Duke of Sussex showed up 90 minutes ahead of the official 11am start time to meet some of the athletes privately, while Meghan arrived at the very last moment.

Meghan was glamorously dressed for the occasion in a $1,250 Sentaler camel coat and sculptural gold earrings while Harry was casual in a sports jacket and jeans.

From left to right: Squamish Nation Councillor, Wilson Williams, Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex, Chief of the Tsleil-Waututh Nation, Jen Thomas, and Prince Harry, the Duke of Sussex exchange greetings after being given blankets during dinner in Vancouver on Friday

Meghan was glamorous in a one-shoulder olive green dress by Canadian designer Greta Constantine as well as a necklace by Logan Hollowell, and shoes by Manolo Blahnik

Bublé - a long-time supporter of the Games - also took to the ice for a spot of curling; telling the crowd: 'Ladies and gentlemen of the press, prepare to see your hometown boy do well!'

The gala comes at the very end of the couple's three-day visit to Canada to mark one year to go until the 2025 Invictus Games which will be held in Whistler, British Columbia.

Day two saw Harry whoop with delight as he tried out a skeleton bobsled – hitting a top speed of 61mph – watched by Meghan who filmed him on her iPhone.

The pair also met with Nigerian power lifter and ex-soldier Peacemaker Azuegbulam who also tried out the skeleton – despite being a double amputee who had never seen snow before.

Speaking to DailyMail.com, Peacemaker said he was thrilled to be reunited with the couple after being introduced to them at Invictus Games in Düsseldorf, Germany, last year where he won a gold medal in the powerlifting.

Now preparing to take part in the skeleton competition at the 2025 Games, despite only making his debut on Thursday, Peacemaker said sport had helped him come to terms with the injuries he sustained during a firefight with Boko Haram terrorists in November 2020.

He said: 'At first I felt ashamed because of my injuries but then I was introduced to the Games and began with playing volleyball. Now I feel good, now I feel recovered.

'I am proud to be the first Invictus champion from Africa and I feel recharged. It totally changed my mindset.'

The appearance at Hillcrest Community Centre – a multi-sport complex run by the city of Vancouver – came a few hours after the couple appeared on Good Morning America, where Harry insisted 'I love my family' and said he 'jumped on a plane' to visit the King 'as soon as I could' after speaking on the phone about his cancer diagnosis.

The 39-year-old also revealed he was 'grateful' to have seen his father Charles III in person and hopes the diagnosis can have a 'reunifying effect' on the Royal Family.

Camera crews from ABC have been following the couple throughout their time in Canada and were seen on Thursday conducting an interview next to the track at the Whistler Sliding Centre.

On Wednesday, the pair made their appearance on the slopes of the Whistler Blackcomb Mountain flanked by GMA presenter Will Reeve – son of the late Superman actor Christopher.

Prince Harry achieved an impressive top speed of 61 miles-per-hour during his daring adventure on day two of the trip

Meghan watched on as Harry tried his hand at skeleton bobsled

After whizzing round for a second time, a beaming Harry made his way down the hill arm-in-arm with Meghan, posing for pictures as they went

The trip also came after the couple became embroiled in rows over the rebranding of their website to Sussex.com, Harry's 30-minute meeting with his cancer-stricken father in London and criticism over the Sussexes' heavy use of private jets.

Despite the swirl of controversy, the Duke and Duchess have appeared unaffected during their trip and were seen beaming in exclusive DailyMail.com photos beaming as they left a romantic Valentine's Day dinner in Whistler on Wednesday night.

Earlier that day, the couple met First Nations youth ambassadors representing the native Canadian tribes on whose land the Games are taking place.

The duo privately toured the Squamish Lil'wat Cultural Center in Whistler where they were shown around by Chief Nelson and Wilson Williams and met artists who created the new Invictus Games logo for the event.

In a statement, Harry and Meghan said: 'The evening and presentation were extremely meaningful.

'IG2025 and the couple could not be more proud to share the artists' piece with the world.

'The couple recognizes the significance of the First Nation communities welcoming the Invictus Games onto their sacred land and are thankful for their warmth and hospitality.'