The camera panned on Tom Hiddleston during the 2024 People's Choice Awards Sunday when host Simu Liu made a joke referencing Taylor Swift, who the Loki actor was involved with years back.

Liu, 34, said in his opening set from the Barker Hangar in Santa Monica, California, 'Finally, for the most iconic pop culture moment of the year, who could forget that one little movie about a blonde American icon that had the entire country dressing up, dancing the night away, and making huge waves at the box office.

'I'm talking of course about Taylor Swift: The Eras Tour movie.'

Hiddleston, 43, who was romantically-linked with the Grammy-winning singer in 2016, was seen smiling as the audience laughed at the joke.

Liu added, 'Oh, I'm sorry did you think I was gonna say the other - no, no. Look, I was a Swiftie long before I was Ken,' referring to his role in Barbie.

The camera panned on Tom Hiddleston, 43, during the 2024 People's Choice Awards Sunday when host Simu Liu, 34, made a joke referencing Taylor Swift, 34, who the Loki actor was involved with years back

People's Choice Awards 2024 Winners At a Glance

Music Male artist of the year: Jung Kook (WINNER) Female artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Male country artist of the year: Jelly Roll (WINNER) Female country artist of the year: Lainey Wilson (WINNER) Male Latin artist of the year: Bad Bunny (WINNER) Female Latin artist of the year: Shakira (WINNER) Pop artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Hip-hop artist of the year: Nicki Minaj (WINNER) R&B artist of the year: Beyoncé (WINNER) New artist of the year: Ice Spice (WINNER) Group/duo of the year: Stray Kids (WINNER) Song of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, “Vampire” (WINNER) Album of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, Guts (WINNER) Collaboration song of the year: Nicki Minaj & Ice Spice with Aqua, “Barbie World” (WINNER) Concert tour of the year: Taylor Swift, The Eras Tour (WINNER) Movies Movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Action movie of the year: The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Drama movie of the year: Oppenheimer (WINNER) Male movie star of the year: Ryan Gosling, Barbie (WINNER) Female movie star of the year: Margot Robbie, Barbie (WINNER) Margot Robbie is a leading contender for female movie star of the year for Barbie Action movie star of the year: Rachel Zegler, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie star of the year: Jennifer Lawrence, No Hard Feelings (WINNER) Drama movie star of the year Jenna Ortega, Scream VI (WINNER) Movie performance of the year America Ferrera, Barbie (WINNER) TV Show of the year: Grey’s Anatomy (WINNER) Comedy show of the year: Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Drama show of the year: The Last of Us (WINNER) Sci-fi/fantasy show of the year: Loki (WINNER) Reality show of the year: The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition show of the year: The Voice (WINNER) Bingeworthy show of the year: The Summer I Turned Pretty (WINNER) Male TV star of the year: Pedro Pascal, The Last of Us (WINNER) Female TV star of the year: Selena Gomez, Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Comedy TV star of the year: Jeremy Allen White, The Bear (WINNER) Drama TV star of the year: Jennifer Aniston, The Morning Show (WINNER) TV performance of the year Billie Eilish, Swarm (WINNER) Reality TV star of the year Khloé Kardashian, The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition contestant of the year Ariana Madix, Dancing with the Stars (WINNER) Daytime talk show of the year The Kelly Clarkson Show (WINNER) Nighttime talk show of the year The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon (WINNER) Host of the year Jimmy Fallon, That’s My Jam (WINNER) Pop Culture Social celebrity of the year Taylor Swift (WINNER) Comedy act of the year Chris Rock, Selective Outrage (WINNER) Athlete of the year Travis Kelce (WINNER) Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

He continued: 'Okay? Just wanted to be super clear where my loyalties lay. I'm a 1989 baby so Taylor and I, we're bonding.'

A number of fans made reference to the camera shot on social media, as one user said that the 'cut to Tom Hiddleston as they’re talking about Taylor Swift was iconic.'

Another user said, 'Not the people’s choice awards cutting to tom hiddleston right when the host brought up how amazing of a year taylor swift had he was cute and smiley though.'

Swift, who is currently linked with Super Bowl-winning NFL star Travis Kelce, was linked with Hiddleston in 2016 after they first crossed paths at the Met Gala in New York City.

They were subsequently pictured on trips to Rhode Island, Nashville and England, before parting ways in the fall of 2016.

Hiddleston praised Swift in a February 2017 piece with GQ, as he said, 'Taylor is an amazing woman ... she's generous and kind and lovely, and we had the best time.'

Hiddleston and fiancée Zawe Ashton, 39, got engaged in March of 2022.

Hiddleston on Sunday was nominated for Male TV star of the year, but lost out to The Last of Us actor Pedro Pascal. Hiddleston did accept the show's win for Sci-fi/Fantasy show of the year, telling the audience, 'Thank you so much - I am so grateful for this great honor.

Hiddleston was nominated for Male TV star of the year, but lost out to Pedro Pascal

Host Simu Liu, who appeared in the Barbie movie last summer, made a joke referencing Swift

Swift and Hiddleston were seen at LAX airport in July of 2016

The Loki star was on hand to accept the show's win for Sci-fi/Fantasy show of the year

Hiddleston told the audience, 'Thank you so much - I am so grateful for this great honor'

He added: 'It is such a privilege to receive this People's Choice Award from you - the audience; the people for whom we make this work and who allow us to do what we do'

The affable actor was seen posing for selfies with fans as he made his entrance to the event

A number of social media users alluded to the camerawork after the reference to Swift

He added: 'It is such a privilege to receive this People's Choice Award from you - the audience; the people for whom we make this work and who allow us to do what we do.'

Barbie was the night's top winner, as it took home five honors altogether, including Ferrera's nod for movie performance, as well as Movie, Comedy Movie, Male Movie Star (Ryan Gosling) and Female Movie Star (Robbie).

Among the night's other notable winners included Swift, 34, who took home four honors, including Female artist of the year, Social celebrity of the year, Pop artist of the year and Concert tour of the year; and Kelce, who was awarded Athlete of the year.

The event was hosted by Marvel Cinematic Universe star Liu, who is best known for his roles in sitcom Kim’s Convenience as well as in Marvel’s Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings.

Liu also portrayed one of the several Kens in the aforementioned $1.4 billion blockbuster Barbie.