England suffered a miserable defeat to India on the fourth day of the third Test in Rajkot as they went down by a huge 434-run margin.

Heading into the day after a difficult Saturday, India piled on the runs in their second innings, with Yashasvi Jaiswal hitting a stunning 214 not out.

India eventually declared on 430-4, setting England a mammoth 557 to win.

However, in a dismal display, Ben Stokes and Co were dismissed for 122, with the 434-run defeat England's worst loss since 1934, while it was also India's biggest ever victory.

Despite the dismal result, Mail Sport's PAUL NEWMAN and RICHARD GIBSON pick out some of the things you may have missed from day four.

England were thrashed by India in the third Test, going down by a huge 434 runs in Rajkot

It was a disastrous day for the visitors as they collapsed to a highly embarassing 122 all out

India out-Bazball England

India out-Bazballed England on Sunday by setting a high for the most sixes hit by one team in a Test.

This was the fourth time in the past 20 months that Ben Stokes’s side have been involved in a Test featuring more than 20 sixes, but the first in which they have played second fiddle, with India’s tally of 28 beating the 27 they managed in a 203-run win against South Africa in Visakhapatnam in 2019.

India’s 18 sixes in their 430 for four declared has only been bettered in an innings once in Test history — when a certain Brendon McCullum hit half of the 22 plundered by New Zealand off the Pakistan attack in Sharjah 10 years ago.

India out-Bazballed England by setting a record for the most sixes hit by one team in a Test

Jaiswal equals world record feat

On his way to equalling Wasim Akram’s Test-record 12 sixes in an innings, Yashasvi Jaiswal drew level with and then surpassed the previous high of eight by an India batsman with the first two of three successive blows over the ropes off Jimmy Anderson, overtaking Navjot Singh Sidhu and Mayank Agarwal in the process.

Yashasvi Jaiswal dominated England and smashed a Test-record of 12 sixes in an innings

Frustration in India camp despite domination

For such a dominant team, India did not seem the happiest of campers during the first half of day four.

First, double centurion Jaiswal was rebuked by the debutant Sarfaraz Khan — whose first-class average of 70.91 is inferior to that of only Sir Don Bradman and Vijay Merchant — for not running two, while Rohit Sharma cut an angry figure in the home dressing room viewing area as the fifth-wicket pair wrongly anticipated a declaration at drinks and started walking off.

England artist returns after heat exhaustion

English artist Andy Brown, who is painting a picture at every day’s play in this series, became a victim of the Gujarati heat when he was taken ill and rushed to hospital during the third day.

Brown knew it was hotter than usual when his oil pastels started melting in the 35°C temperatures, before he suffered heat exhaustion standing just beyond the boundary and ended up on a drip at a Rajkot hospital.

Back at his post on Sunday, he took the sensible precaution of setting up in the shade of the main stand of this solar-powered stadium.

‘My oil pastels have never melted like that before,’ said Brown. ‘But strangely I didn’t consider the heat might have the same effect on the artist.’

Dhruv Jurel became the first wicketkeeper from state side Uttar Pradesh to play for India

Debutant Jurel makes history

Dhruv Jurel, who displayed supreme agility in the run out of Ben Duckett, is the first wicketkeeper from Uttar Pradesh to play for India.

However, UP has proved a hotbed of talent in the first quarter of this century, with Suresh Raina and Bhuvneshwar Kumar among those to establish themselves on the international stage, and Jurel joining state team-mate Kuldeep Yadav in the current XI.