Heather Graham stole the spotlight at the 39th Annual Santa Barbara International Film Festival Closing Night on Saturday.

The stunning star, 54, looked incredible in a stylish red gown as she arrived at the Arlignton Theatre gala, which included the world premiere of her film Chosen Family.

The dramedy was written and directed by the actress, who also stars in it alongside Julia Stiles, Andrea Savage, Ella Grace and John Brotherton.

She effortlessly commanded attention at the event in her bold gown, showcasing a plunging neckline and a strategically placed cut-out design that highlighted her sculpted abs.

Opting for minimal makeup, Heather let her natural beauty take center stage as she posed alongside her co-stars, Ella and John.

Heather Graham stole the spotlight at the 39th Annual Santa Barbara International Film Festival Closing Night on Saturday

The stunning star, 54, looked incredible in a stylish red gown as she arrived at the Arlignton Theatre gala, which included the world premiere of her film Chosen Family

In Chosen Family, Heather takes on the role of Ann, a yoga teacher on a quest for inner peace amidst her chaotic family dynamics and a less-than-ideal dating life.

Despite her struggles, Ann grapples with an inability to say no, constantly finding herself entangled in others' problems.

As she endeavors to mend her fractured relationship with her sister Clio (Stiles), Ann leans on her friends Roz (Savage), Max (Thomas Lennon), and Frances (Odessa Rae) for support.

'I’m so excited to be making my dream project with an amazing team,' Graham previously said in a statement.

'In a male-dominated industry, we love supporting women,' producers Chad A. Verdi and Michelle Verdi told The Hollywood Reporter.

'Heather’s drive, writing, directing and starring in this film has been wonderful to witness.'

Heather's big night at the annual festival comes a week after Robert Downey Jr. was recognized with the esteemed Maltin Modern Master Award at the Arlington Theatre.

Downey Jr. - whose searing performance as Lewis Strauss in Oppenheimer is gaining Oscar buzz - was also joined by superstar pals Rob Lowe, David Duchovny, Natasha Leggero, Chelsea Peretti and more.

The dramedy was written and directed by the actress, who also stars in it alongside Julia Stiles, Andrea Savage, Ella Grace and John Brotherton

She effortlessly commanded attention at the event in her bold gown, showcasing a plunging neckline and a strategically placed cut-out design that highlighted her sculpted abs.

Opting for minimal makeup, Heather let her natural beauty take center stage

Heather posed alongside her co-star Ella Grace

'I’m so excited to be making my dream project with an amazing team,' Graham previously said in a statement; pictured with John Brotherton

Thomas Lennon, Ella, Heather and John posed for a fun group photo

Heather braved the rain to attend her world premiere

Heather spoke at the gala as she wrote and directed Chosen Family

Thomas co-stars in Chosen Family

Cillian Murphy - who played nuclear physicist J. Robert Oppenheimer in Christopher Nolan's blockbuster - beamed with pride as he posed with the guest of honor.

The Modern Master Award is the highest honor presented by SBIFF, according to its website.

'Established in 1995, it was created to honor an individual who has enriched our culture through accomplishments in the motion picture industry,' reads the statement.

The award was re-named the Maltin Modern Master Award in 2015 in honor of long-time SBIFF moderator and renowned film critic Leonard Maltin.

Past winners included Jamie Lee Curtis Javier Bardem, Nicole Kidman, Bill Murray Brad Pitt, Glenn Close, Gary Oldman and Denzel Washington.