They're perfect for a great ice-scape - natural ice-skating trails that meander magically through the forests of Canada.

Skaters bored with going around in circles on artificial rinks at these can launch themselves through the countryside without the risk of bumping into anyone.

Here, MailOnline Travel has rounded up some of the country's most striking ice-skating trails, from dog-friendly paths with reindeer on site to 15km-long 'maze-like' adventures.

They're open as long as weather permits. Scroll down for more on these super-cool spots...

Patinage en Forêt - Ottawa

Patinage en Forêt is a 'magical' ice-skating trail in the forests of Lac-des-Loups, close to Ottawa

Patinage en Forêt is open seven days a week if the weather permits

This 'magical' 3km (1.8-mile) ice-skating trail is nestled in the forests of Lac-des-Loups, just 45 minutes from Ottawa. Skaters can enjoy the trail seven days a week, from 9:00am until sunset, if the temperature is under zero degrees.

The site even hosts an 'evening of torchlight', a regular event where guests can skate after dark, which sees its icy trail lit up with 350 torches.

A daily pass to the ice trail costs $18 (£14.37) for adults and $14 (£11.17) for children (six to 17-year-olds). A season pass costs $114 (£90.99) for adults and $89 (£71.04) for children.

Snowshoeing, walking and admission costs are priced at $10 (£7.98) for a daily ticket and $40 (£31.93) for a seasonal ticket.

For more details visit www.patinageenforet.com/en/pricing-and-hours.

Domaine Enchanteur - Quebec

Visitors can bring their dogs along to Domaine Enchanteur

Domaine Enchanteur lies in the Mauricie region of Canada between Montréal and Québec City. It features a 15km (9.3-mile) 'maze-like trail' for guests to skate on.

The site is dog friendly, and its website promises guests a chance to see animals such as reindeer en route.

For unsteady skaters, there's a snowshoe trail around the forest, and sledges are available to rent on-site.

Tickets are priced at $24 (£19.15) for adults and $17 (£13.57) for five to 12-year-olds, while those under four go free.

Visit www.facebook.com/DomaineEnchanteur and www.domaineenchanteur.com for more information, including skating conditions.

River Oak Skating Trail - Ottawa

River Oak is situated just 30 minutes from Ottawa and features a 3km-long ice-skating trail

The site offers an outdoor rink where guests can play hockey and hosts evening sessions for skaters to enjoy after dark

River Oak describes itself as 'nature’s playground'. It lies just 30 minutes outside Ottawa and features a 3km-long (1.8-mile) ice skating trail surrounded by forestry.

Visitors can rent equipment on-site and there’s even an outdoor ice rink to play hockey on. The site is open from Thursday to Sunday, with after-dark sessions available.

An adult day pass costs $19 (£15.16), while seniors and children can get in for $15 (£11.97). The site offers a family day pass for $63 (£50.28).

River Oak advises checking regularly to see if the trail is open. Updates are posted on its Facebook page - www.facebook.com/RiverOakEstates - and website, www.riveroak.ca/skating.

Muskoka Lakes Farm and Winery - Ontario

Muskoka Farm and Winery is known for its cranberry fields, but when they freeze over the spot transforms into a winter paradise

The ice trail at Muskoka Farm and Winery is described as a 'one-of-a-kind-experience'

Muskoka Lakes Farm and Winery is located around two and a half hours from Toronto and is known for its cranberry marshes. Each winter, the marsh freezes over, making a stunning 1.2km ice-skating loop.

Its website says: 'With forest on one side and cranberry beds on the other, this is a one-of-a-kind experience.' After skating, visitors can head to the winery for hot mulled wine or hot cran-apple cider.

The trail is open seven days a week if the weather permits and an evening skate session is scheduled every Saturday night.

Ice trail day passes are available to purchase on the winery’s website - cranberry.ca/product/ice-trail-pass. Prices start at $16 (£12.77) for adults and $12 (£9.58) for under 12-year-olds.

Arrowhead Provincial Park - Ontario

Arrowhead Provincial Park transforms into a winter paradise in the colder months

During the summer months, Arrowhead Provincial Park in Huntsville, Ontario, is known for its lush forestry and sandy beaches. In winter, it transforms into a snowy paradise, offering a 1.3km (1.8-mile) ice skating trail through the Muskoka forest.

The popular winter attraction boasts picturesque landscapes and various activities, from snowshoeing to skiing.

Visitors are advised to book well in advance, and equipment is available to rent on a first come, first served basis, according to its website. Snowshoes and ice skates are priced at $15 (£11.97) for three hours, while a full day of skiing will cost adults $32 and children $25 (£19.95).

For more information, visit www.ontarioparks.ca/parksblog/tips-for-checking-arrowhead-off-of-your-bucket-list/.