Bathrobes, souvenir patches and rationed quantities of alcohol, these are just a few of the things on offer at the world's southernmost convenience store.

Josiah Horneman, 37, spent eight months living at Antarctica's Amundsen-Scott South Pole Station as a medic and in one of his TikToks, he takes people inside the base's sole convenience store.

In the comment section he explains that 'Polemart' is only open three times a week for an hour each time, as there are 'only 39 people' living at the station.

As he pans the camera around, he points out some of the things on sale, including 'clothes, candy, souvenirs, lots of postcards,' and 'a whole shelf of soft drinks.'

Josiah Horneman spent eight months living at Antarctica's Amundsen-Scott South Pole Station as a medic and in one of his TikTok videos, he takes people inside the base's convenience store

In the comment section he explains that 'Polemart' is only open three times a week for an hour each time, as there are 'only 39 people' living at the station

Continuing his tour, he says: 'Of course we have some shelves of alcohol as well.

'It is available but rationed, so it keeps things to a reasonable level.'

One of the fancier items on sale comes in the form of a waffle bath robe.

Josiah says: 'You can get an Antarctica bath robe with the South Pole compass on it, which is just a compass where every direction points north.'

Moving to another area of the small store, Josiah points out souvenir patches, wine glasses, and 'basic drugstore stuff.'

To date, Josiah's Polemart tour has been viewed more than 670,000 times with many viewers thanking him for the insights.

Touching on the store's pricing, the medic notes in the comment section: 'It's basically a company store.

'It's not really there to make a profit. It's there for fun.

'Everything sold there is basically at or just above cost.'

Moving to another area of the small store, Josiah points out souvenir patches, wine glasses, and 'basic drugstore stuff'

One of the fancier items on sale comes in the form of a waffle bath robe

In the clip, Josiah notes that there is also a small post office station outside Polemart, which operates during the summer months.

To prove the mail came from the South Pole, Josiah says there are unique postal stamps that can be applied.

The post office also features a 'be a hero, write to a kid' box.

Explaining what this is, Joshiah says: 'Lots of kids write to the South Pole station.

'We put them in this bin and then anybody who wants to can come by, pick it up and write the kid back.'

Josiah has since left Antarctica, but he has a loyal following on TikTok where he regularly posts videos addressing various medical subjects.