The family home belonging to Gavin and Stacey star Ruth Jones is up for sale for £549,950.

The six-bedroom home in the Welsh town of Porthcawl is spread over three floors and boasts a spacious kitchen, two bathrooms and a master bedroom with a balcony.

The terrace where the writer and comedian grew up also has a paved outside space complete with a hot tub, stone fireplace and bar.

The actress, who plays Nessa in the BBC hit comedy, lived with her solicitor father and GP mum as well as her two older brothers and a younger sister just a stone's throw away from the beach.

After the actress moved out, the property was snapped up by her childhood friend and is now on the market for just over half a million pounds.

The three-storey house overlooks Porthcawl beach and was the family home of Ruth Jones before it was bought by her childhood friend

Ms Jones is best known for her portrayal of Nessa Jenkins in the hit BBC show Gavin and Stacey which she co-wrote with comedian James Corden

The terrace comes complete with a blue Welsh Heritage plaque stating that Ms Jones was born here in 1966

The open-plan kitchen has its original beams and a two oven, gas range cooker fitted into the original chimney

Her childhood friend Paula said: 'We used to play together when we were very young - we lived opposite and I used to come over and play.

'We feel this house is so very special as we can walk on the seafront within minutes and the beach has been our children's playground for many years.

'We have a perfect sunny garden having added a hot tub, fireplace and outdoor bar to enjoy the evening glass of wine.

'No taxis are needed as everything is walkable here so we will often pop out for a curry or meal in the fantastic local restaurants. Our children walk to school too.

'We will be so sad to leave the home as we have loved our time here but we are now moving on to do a complete renovation, in fact locally to here.'

Ms Jones last visited the property in 2019 when filming an Australian programme called 'Julia Zemiro's Home Delivery'.

At the time, she said: 'I was thinking I was going to feel really strange coming back here, and I do feel strange, but it's a nice strange, it does feel like coming home.'

The spacious bathroom sits under the eaves and has feature diamond mosaic floor tiles and a free-standing bath

The six bedrooms are all spacious doubles with beautiful views

Porthcawl is just over 35 miles away from Cardiff - where there's direct rail lines to London, Bristol and Birmingham.

The luxury property also has a blue plaque sign to commemorate the famous former resident - but the new buyers aren't required to keep it.

Ms Jones last visited the property in 2019 when filming an Australian programme called 'Julia Zemiro's Home Delivery'.

At the time, she said: 'I was thinking I was going to feel really strange coming back here, and I do feel strange, but it's a nice strange, it does feel like coming home.'

The house on Picton Avenue, Porthcawl, is up for sale for £549,950 with Thompsons Estate Agents in Porthcawl.

The house has an enclosed outside space with a hot tub, stone fireplace and even a log cabin bar