Gary Neville has backed Manchester United to 'sneak in' to the Champions League places this season, despite their struggles with consistency this season.

Erik ten Hag's side fell eight points behind fourth-placed Aston Villa after Saturday's games, but Man United reduced that to five points following a 2-1 win in Sunday afternoon's trip to Luton Town.

Man United finished bottom of their Champions League group in December, so their only hope of making Europe's elite club competition again is a high-placed finish in the Premier League, but Neville has every faith that they can still do it, particularly with the games on the horizon.

The Red Devils travel to Fulham next weekend and have the Manchester derby the following week, but Aston Villa host Tottenham, currently in fifth, on March 10, which will also impact on the race for the European spots.

Speaking before the Luton game on Man United's Champions League ambitions, Neville told Sky Sports: 'They can do it, definitely. They can go three points [behind] Spurs today. Spurs play Villa in a couple of weeks. I know United play City

Gary Neville has backed Manchester United to 'sneak in' to a Champions League place

He admits that Erik ten Hag's side have failed to be 'consistent' during the season

Your browser does not support iframes.

'United need six points from these two matches, Luton and Fulham. They can't make any mistakes in these two games. There's still a long way to go for United, there's still a lot of work to do.

'But travelling from Manchester this morning, looking about that league table, thinking about what United have got coming forward and the fact they've got a lot of the players fit, there's a lot more optimism about whether United can finish into the Champions League.

'If I was looking at it today, I'd probably say yes, they'll sneak in to that fifth / fourth place.

'They've got to be consistent, and haven't been that over this season, but just the last few weeks, there are signs it's starting to happen a little bit.'

Neville says 'there are signs it's starting to happen' at Man United despite their inconsistency

Whilst traditionally the Premier League's top four teams have qualified for the Champions League, it is possible that the fifth-placed side could also make it, as UEFA expand the competition.

Man United host Fulham next weekend, before a midweek FA Cup trip to Nottingham Forest ahead of the critical trip to Manchester City on March 3.