Bradley Cooper purchased a $6.5 million sweeping Pennsylvania estate in the same town as his girlfriend Gigi Hadid and her mother Yolanda.

The Maestro star, who is a Pennsylvania native, bought the 33-acre estate in Bucks County in December.

The seven bedroom, seven bathroom mansion measures 6,323 square feet and features an updated guest house, classic stone bank barn, pool, pond and access to a 20-acre private lake, according to Zillow.

Built in 1704, the interior has historical details such as an early walk-in fireplace and stone sink, exposed stone and beamed ceilings.

First reported by the New York Post, the spacious interiors are lined with French oak hardwood floors throughout the main residence and guest house.

Bradley Cooper purchased a $6.5 million sweeping Pennsylvania estate in the same town as his girlfriend Gigi Hadid and her mother Yolanda

The seven bedroom, seven bathroom mansion measures 6,323 square feet and features an updated guest house, classic stone bank barn, pool, pond and access to a 20-acre private lake

Built in 1704, the interior has historical details such as an early walk-in fireplace and stone sink, exposed stone and beamed ceilings

Bradley Cooper, who is a Pennsylvania native, bought the Bucks County home in December

A gallery-style hall looks out to a large patio, in-ground pool and gardens. The hall leads to a fitness area and a big family room with a screened porch.

The farmhouse is an eight minute drive from Gigi's mother Yolanda Hadid's $4 million farm in the quaint town of New Hope, which has a population of less than 3,000.

Yolanda moved into the 32-acre property in 2017 and it has since become a safe haven for Gigi and her siblings.

The supermodel, 28, and the actor, 48, sparked up a romance in October after they were reportedly 'introduced' by Bradley's ex Irina Shayk, 37.

Gigi spent much of the COVID-19 lockdown at the picturesque location and it's reportedly where she gave birth to her three-year-old daughter Khai.

Yolanda previously said the farm is where the family comes to 'feel like ourselves again.'

Bradley was born and raised in Abington Township in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, which is a 22 miles outside of New Hope.

The 28-year-old supermodel - who recently shot the cover for Edward Enninful's final Vogue edition - was spotted outside her Big Apple pad as a messenger service dropped of a stunning array of red roses at her door.

The supermodel, 28, and the Maestro star, 48, sparked up a romance in October after they were reportedly 'introduced' by Bradley's ex Irina Shayk, 37

The supermodel was spotted outside her Big Apple pad as a messenger service dropped of a stunning array of red roses at her door on Wednesday

Dressed in a cream sweat suit and brown leather jacket, the beauty looked casually chic as her bodyguard signed for the package

Dressed in a cream sweat suit and brown leather jacket, the beauty looked casually chic as her bodyguard signed for the package.

While it's uncertain whether the Oscar nominee sent the flowers, Bradley recently gave reason for celebrating Valentine's with Gigi by beaming with happiness as they stepped out together in New York City two weeks ago.

Though they weren't showing any signs of affection, they certainly looked happy to be in one another's company.

Last week the couple were captured holding hands in their first-ever public display of affection while out in London together.

The Maestro star — who was snubbed by the Oscars in the Best Director category — cemented their relationship as they walked hand-in-hand, which is a notable gesture for the famously private pair.