Watching training while injured in the gym is like seeing your missus walking down the street with another bloke - Listen to the It's All Kicking Off podcast

Eden Hazard has admitted his relationship with Jose Mourinho broke down during the manager's disastrous final season at Chelsea.

Mourinho returned for his second spell at Stamford Bridge in 2013, and won his third Premier League title with the club two years later, with Hazard playing a starring role for the Blues.

But Chelsea's title defence went calamitously wrong, and Mourinho was sacked in December 2015 with the team down in 16th place.

Speaking on former team-mate John Obi Mikel's Obi One Podcast, Hazard claimed his first two years with Mourinho could hardly have gone better, but revealed their relationship became strained towards the end, with Hazard not scoring a league goal until April in the 2015-16 season.

'The first two seasons, amazing,' Hazard said. 'Remember the first year, the team was new so it was just the beginning. Then the second season of Jose we won the league and we won the League Cup.

Eden Hazard (centre) and Jose Mourinho (right) won the league together at Chelsea in 2015

But Hazard has admitted his relationship with Mourinho 'went away' during the manager's disastrous final season

Your browser does not support iframes.

'Then the third season was like starting problems, we lost games and at the end the relationship went away a little bit.

'But then I have just huge respect for him and what he did in his whole career as a manager. Now I can tell my kids that Jose Mourinho was my manager for like two-and-a-half years. Just a good story, you know.'

Over the past two decades, Mourinho has become known for making his teams difficult to break down by expecting every player to work hard on and off the ball.

Yet Hazard seemed to get more opportunities to express himself at Chelsea under Mourinho, with the manager recognising that the Belgian winger was capable of being a game-changer.

Responding to whether he was given total freedom to roam around the pitch and make things happen in the final third, Hazard denied that was the case, but did concede that Mourinho gave him preferential treatment in training.

'Total freedom, I don't know. But kind of freedom, yeah, yeah, yeah!' Hazard added.

'At the end, he knew I was on the pitch to win us games, as simple as that. He asked me to do my job. And you know with Jose if you don't do your job he can tell you in front of everyone.

'He gave me freedom but not like crazy. I remember him sometimes saying on the pitch in training "don't kick Eden!" and I was like "what, why!?" But for me, it's nice!'

Hazard won two pieces of major silverware with Mourinho, but feels he actually played better under a different Chelsea manager.

Hazard feels he was at his best for Chelsea under Antonio Conte, but admitted he hated the Italian's training sessions

Reflecting on his seven years in west London, Hazard believes he was at his best when being coached by Antonio Conte between 2016 and 2018, even though he hated the Italian's coaching methods.

'I think my best time at Chelsea was with Antonio Conte,' he said.

Discussing Conte's training sessions with Mikel, Hazard continued: 'All the week training. I was going out Saturday, I need to enjoy a little bit because I know the day after is going to be back on the training ground. I have to do something, it's my only 90 minutes I can enjoy.

'You remember him, stopping, tactics, "no we have to do that". Saturday was the best day for me.'

Eden Hazard was speaking on the Obi One Podcast.