This is the moment rock crumbles into the sea in a massive landslide on Dorset's famous Jurassic Coast following heavy rainfall at the beauty spot.

The rockslide at Lulworth Cove, near the landmark Durdle Door, followed a spree of wild weather in the area - with a local cafe declared structurally unsafe.

Luckily, no one was injured, despite footage showing crowds left stunned by the incident at the popular cove last Wednesday.

The cove has recently suffered multiple landslips, with the most recent one being captured on video just a few days ago on February 11, and another little under a month ago.

Lulworth Cove is visited by thousands of people each year who come to see the panoramic views and clear waters on the World Heritage Site.

Did YOU witness the landslide? Email emily.davies@mailonline.co.uk

The rockslide at Lulworth Cove, near the landmark Durdle Door, followed a spree of wild weather in the area - with a local cafe declared structurally unsafe

The cove has recently suffered multiple landslips, with the most recent one being captured on video just a few days ago on February 11, and another little under a month ago

Luckily, no one was injured, despite footage showing crowds left stunned by the incident

Onlooker Richard Mower described the scene as 'very dramatic but sad' to the BBC.

He continued: 'I think all the rain has loosened the cliff and we just sat there as cracks in the cliff appeared and we just knew it was going to give.'

The last landslide happened little over a week ago, with local group The Lulworth Rangers claiming they had seen rockslides 'all morning'.

A spokesperson for the Lulworth Rangers told the Dorset Echo at the time: 'February is often a month with severe changes in environmental conditions, making the cliffs more prone to landslips as frozen material may thaw quickly, and heavy rainfall undermines stability too.

'The cliffs at Lulworth Cove are showing signs of instability. Small slips like this have been happening all morning. Take care at the base and top of cliffs and check tides to ensure you don't inadvertently put yourself in harm's way.'

Further along the coast, East Cliff - which is known for featuring in drama series Broadchurch - has seen three huge rockfalls recently.