With this superyacht, all that glitters really is gold.

AK Royalty is said to be one of the world's only vessels of its kind with a 24kt gold paint job.

The yacht, which measures 136ft, even comes with a pair of gold jet skis and electric underwater scooters - known as Seabobs - while there are gold fixtures and fittings running throughout.

For those who fancy turning heads in such a boat, it is currently available to charter with Burgess from $120,000 a week with a maximum of 12 guests.

AK Royalty is said to be one of the world's only vessels of its kind with a 24kt gold paint job

The yacht, which measures 136ft, even comes with a pair of gold jet skis and gold jet skis and electric underwater scooters - known as Seabobs - while there are gold fixtures and fittings running throughout

For those who fancy turning heads in such a boat, it is currently available to charter with Burgess from $120,000 a week with a maximum of 12 guests

Owner Aaron Fidler told Robb Report that the shimmering paint finish 'took months to perfect,' and it consists of a blend of specialist marine paint and 24kt gold dust

The former deckhand, who made millions after setting up a tech company, purchased the vessel in early 2023, before he spent a vast sum on its transformation

Owner Aaron Fidler told Robb Report that the shimmering paint finish 'took months to perfect,' and it consists of a blend of specialist marine paint and 24kt gold dust.

The former deckhand, who made millions after setting up a tech company, purchased the vessel in early 2023, before he spent a vast sum on its transformation.

It took six months to refit the yacht with the exterior paint job being one of the bigger tasks.

An outdoor bar area also features a gold sheen, with metallic dining chairs to match.

Moving inside, Fidler upgraded the interiors to be equally as bling, with Fendi carpeting, marble clad bathrooms and mirrored panels above the beds being among some of his installs.

To complement the gold tones, Fidler opted for a chic monochrome color scheme when it came to the furnishings.

In total there are five guest cabins, including a spacious master suite with a steam shower, sauna and freestanding bathtub in the ensuite bathroom.

In terms of the communal areas, there is an open plan lounge space on the upper deck which leads through to a dining room.

It took six months to refit the yacht with the exterior paint job being one of the bigger tasks

Fidler also upgraded the interiors, with Fendi carpeting, marble clad bathrooms and mirrored panels above the beds being among some of his installs

To complement the gold tones, Fidler opted for a chic monochrome color scheme when it came to the furnishings

In total there are five guest cabins, including a spacious master suite with a steam shower, sauna and freestanding bathtub in the ensuite bathroom

To ensure guests don't get restless at sea, Fidler kitted the yacht out with a spread of toys including an inflatable slide, 12-person floating trampoline, scuba diving equipment and two standup paddleboards

Fidler purchased the yacht - which was originally built in 2009 and christened Plus Too - in France before he had it transported to Dubai where he currently lives

There is also plenty of space outside to sit back and relax, with sun loungers, jacuzzi and dining area to host guests.

To ensure visitors don't get restless at sea, Fidler kitted the yacht out with a spread of toys including an inflatable slide, 12-person floating trampoline, scuba diving equipment and two standup paddleboards.

On the fitness side of things, the sun deck also doubles up as an outdoor gym, complete with boxing equipment, resistance bands, training bench, and yoga mats.

Meanwhile, for a spot of nighttime revelry, the yacht boasts a DJ booth and new speakers on the main deck, so sailors can party the night away.

Fidler purchased the yacht - which was originally built in 2009 and christened Plus Too - in France before he had it transported to Dubai where he currently lives.

It is now available for summer and winter charters in the Arabian Gulf, and Burgess says the yacht promises 'a vacation to remember.'