South Sydney Rabbitohs captain Cameron Murray and fiancé Miranda Cross have welcomed their first child to the world just in time for the NRL's historic season opener in Vegas.

The couple shared images of their beautiful baby daughter Avalon on social media, after Murray proposed to his partner on a Sydney beach in 2023 following seven years of dating.

'Our baby girl is here. Avalon Georgia Murray born on the 13 February 2024,' Miranda posted.

'We’ve had the most magical week soaking up every moment together. You are more than we could have ever dreamed of our Avy girl, perfect in every single way.

'A lifetime together will never be long enough.'

South Sydney Rabbitohs captain Cameron Murray and partner Miranda Cross with their daughter Avalon who was born earlier this month

Murray takes some time to get to know his new daughter ahead of the NRL season which kicks off against Manly in Las Vegas

Murray proposed to his long-term partner in June, 2023 after the State of Origin series

The young couple were congratulated by the Rabbitohs on social media.

'The latest member of the Rabbitohs family,' the club posted.

'Congratulations to Cameron and Miranda on the birth of their beautiful baby girl, Avalon Georgia Murray.'

'A host of teammates took to social media to congratulate the young family as well.

'Congratulations fam. Welcome to the world Avalon,' Cody Walker posted.

'Congratulations guys can't wait to meet your little princess,' hooker Damien Cook added.

'Unreal legends glad everyone is well. Massive congratulations,' new recruit Jack Wighton said.

And there were plenty of comments from players from other clubs as well, including Cowboys bookend Reuben Cotter and Bulldogs star Josh Addo-Carr.

Even AFL star Trent Cochin congratulated the young couple, posting: 'Congrats guys! Such a special time'.

Meanwhile Souths star half Cody Walker is a '90 per cent chance' to recover from his calf injury in time for South Sydney's historic season opener in Las Vegas.

Walker had been due to captain the Indigenous side in Friday night's All Stars clash but withdrew after tweaking his calf at training.

Cody Walker has been rated a 90 per cent chance of playing in the history season opener against Manly in Las Vegas after missing the NRL All Stars match with a calf injury

Latrell Mitchell gave Bunnies fans an injury scare in the All Stars match but will be fine to take his place at fullback in Vegas

Given even low-grade calf strains can still necessitate weeks on the sidelines, the injury casts doubt over Walker's ability to suit up at Allegiant Stadium on March 3.

Walker was seen with a brace on his right calf as he watched Saturday's 28-6 defeat of St George Illawarra in Kogarah but appeared to walk without problem afterwards.

He will fly to the USA with the Rabbitohs early next week and is expected to line up against Manly.

The 34-year-old's inclusion would be a major boost for Souths as they look to make an early statement after missing last season's NRL finals.

'Cody's a 90 per cent chance of playing,' said Souths coach Demetriou.

'As long as he gets through his rehab runs early next week, he'll join the team and train the full week leading into round one.'

Souths will welcome Latrell and Shaq Mitchell back after both were absent from the Charity Shield win, having played for the Indigenous All Stars the night before.

Damien Cook and Siliva Havili, rested for the win over the Dragons, are also 'certain starters' for Las Vegas.

A relieved Demetriou confirmed there had been no new additions to the casualty ward on Saturday night.