Lainey Wilson turned heads in an eye-catching ensemble as she attended the 2024 People's Choice Awards in Santa Monica on Sunday.

The Heart Like A Truck songstress, 31 - who recently won the Grammy award for Best Country Album earlier this month - joined other celebrities on the red carpet at the Barker Hangar, such as Kylie Minogue and Laverne Cox.

The country singer flaunted her toned frame wearing a fitted, cheetah-print catsuit that contained a halter-styled top and bell bottoms.

A small cutout could be seen on the upper portion of the outfit that offered a sultry flare to the look.

She added a black hat on top of her head that partially covered her long locks that effortlessly flowed down past her shoulders in light waves.

Lainey Wilson, 31, turned heads in an eye-catching ensemble as she attended the 2024 People's Choice Awards in Santa Monica on Sunday

The country singer flaunted her toned frame wearing a fitted, cheetah-print catsuit that contained a halter-styled top and bell bottoms

Wilson accessorized her look with a pair of large, gold-hooped earrings as well as an assortment of flashy rings on each of her hands.

Her makeup was glammed up for the festivities, and comprised of a layer of mascara to her lashes as well as a light shadow around her eyes.

A light blush was added to her cheekbones, while a glossy, nude-colored tint was worn on her lips for a finishing touch.

The star was seen flashing a cheerful smile as she strutted on the blue carpet while showing off her fashionable look for the event.

While recently talking to Grammy.com, the beauty opened up about her personal style and her love for bell bottoms. 'I mean, if I'm going out, I'm gonna be wearing my bell bottoms.'

'But at my house, you gon' find me with my hair on top of my head in my sweatpants. The truth is, though, when I put on these bell bottoms, I really do feel like I can take whatever it is on.'

She then recalled, 'I remember getting my first pair of bell bottoms at 9 years old. That was the year that I wrote my first song, got my horse, went to Nashville for the first time, and I remember how those bell bottoms made me feel.'

'They made me feel sassy, that I had a little extra pep in my step. So I can go from sweatpants to putting on my bell bottoms and then I'm ready! They're magic.'

People's Choice Awards 2024 Winners At a Glance

Music Male artist of the year: Jung Kook (WINNER) Female artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Male country artist of the year: Jelly Roll (WINNER) Female country artist of the year: Lainey Wilson (WINNER) Male Latin artist of the year: Bad Bunny (WINNER) Female Latin artist of the year: Shakira (WINNER) Pop artist of the year: Taylor Swift (WINNER) Hip-hop artist of the year: Nicki Minaj (WINNER) R&B artist of the year: Beyoncé (WINNER) New artist of the year: Ice Spice (WINNER) Group/duo of the year: Stray Kids (WINNER) Song of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, “Vampire” (WINNER) Album of the year: Olivia Rodrigo, Guts (WINNER) Collaboration song of the year: Nicki Minaj & Ice Spice with Aqua, “Barbie World” (WINNER) Concert tour of the year: Taylor Swift, The Eras Tour (WINNER) Movies Movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Action movie of the year: The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie of the year: Barbie (WINNER) Drama movie of the year: Oppenheimer (WINNER) Male movie star of the year: Ryan Gosling, Barbie (WINNER) Female movie star of the year: Margot Robbie, Barbie (WINNER) Margot Robbie is a leading contender for female movie star of the year for Barbie Action movie star of the year: Rachel Zegler, The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (WINNER) Comedy movie star of the year: Jennifer Lawrence, No Hard Feelings (WINNER) Drama movie star of the year Jenna Ortega, Scream VI (WINNER) Movie performance of the year America Ferrera, Barbie (WINNER) TV Show of the year: Grey’s Anatomy (WINNER) Comedy show of the year: Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Drama show of the year: The Last of Us (WINNER) Sci-fi/fantasy show of the year: Loki (WINNER) Reality show of the year: The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition show of the year: The Voice (WINNER) Bingeworthy show of the year: The Summer I Turned Pretty (WINNER) Male TV star of the year: Pedro Pascal, The Last of Us (WINNER) Female TV star of the year: Selena Gomez, Only Murders in the Building (WINNER) Comedy TV star of the year: Jeremy Allen White, The Bear (WINNER) Drama TV star of the year: Jennifer Aniston, The Morning Show (WINNER) TV performance of the year Billie Eilish, Swarm (WINNER) Reality TV star of the year Khloé Kardashian, The Kardashians (WINNER) Competition contestant of the year Ariana Madix, Dancing with the Stars (WINNER) Daytime talk show of the year The Kelly Clarkson Show (WINNER) Nighttime talk show of the year The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon (WINNER) Host of the year Jimmy Fallon, That’s My Jam (WINNER) Pop Culture Social celebrity of the year Taylor Swift (WINNER) Comedy act of the year Chris Rock, Selective Outrage (WINNER) Athlete of the year Travis Kelce (WINNER) Advertisement !- - ad: https://mads.dailymail.co.uk/v8/gb/tvshowbiz/none/article/other/mpu_factbox.html?id=mpu_factbox_1 - ->

A small cutout could be seen on the upper portion of the outfit that offered a sultry flare to the look

Wilson accessorized her look with a pair of large, gold-hooped earrings as well as an assortment of flashy rings on each of her hands

Her makeup was glammed up for the festivities, and comprised of a layer of mascara to her lashes as well as a light shadow around her eyes

Lainey is slated to perform during the awards ceremony and also received two nominations for Female Artist of the Year and Female Country Artist of the Year.

Earlier this month, Wilson won her first Grammy award for Best Country Album for her 2022 album titled, Bell Bottom Country.

She was also nominated alongside fellow music artist, Jelly Roll, for their song Save Me which garnered the nod for Best Country Duo/Group Performance.

While at the Grammys, Wilson reflected on her success in the music industry during an interview with People.

'It's been a whirlwind, and that's the best way I can explain it,' she expressed to the outlet, and added that she is, 'trying to keep one foot on the ground.'

The country singer reflected on the road to her success and said, 'I've been like preparing for the race and I finally entered it and now I'm running it. I'm right where I'm supposed to be.'

Lainey is slated to perform during the awards ceremony and also received two nominations for Female Artist of the Year and Female Country Artist of the Year; seen earlier this month in Beverly Hills

Earlier this month, Wilson won her first Grammy award for Best Country Album for her 2022 album titled, Bell Bottom Country (seen above)

She also opened up about her passion for the country music genre while talking to Grammy.com. 'When you're from a town of 200 people in Northeast Louisiana, you're surrounded by country music. It's the soundtrack of your life.'

'And so I had no choice but to eat, sleep and breathe country music, and I've dedicated my life to it.'

Lainey added, 'I wrote my first song at 9 years old, I started playing guitar at 11, and that's when I started working on this. I didn't just start working on this when I moved to Nashville in 2011.'

'I've dedicated my life to it. And it really is cool to just feel like that little 9-year-old girl who was writing her first song, that she wasn't completely crazy.'