Raphael Varane wound up Luton Town fans by blowing them a kiss after Manchester United's 2-1 win at Kenilworth Road on Sunday.

Rasmus Hojlund scored twice in the opening seven minutes to put Erik ten Hag's side comfortably ahead, and whilst Carlton Morris got a 14th goal for the Hatters, they were unable to find a second, and Man United saw out the game.

Varane was one of Manchester United's central defenders who was able to snuff out the attacking threat from Luton as they searched for their equaliser.

His crucial 31st-minute block denied Luton an opportunity to level following Harry Maguire's mistake.

The Frenchman provided another reminder that Man United would be wise to extend his contract beyond the end of the season, having been at the club since 2021.

Raphael Varane did not endear himself to Luton Town supporters by blowing them a kiss

It came as the French defender was leaving the pitch after Man United's 2-1 win on Sunday

Your browser does not support iframes.

When the match was over, Varane blew a kiss to the Luton Town fans as he walked down the tunnel - which did not impress the home supporters nearby.

They reacted furiously to the action of Varane, with one even hitting the tunnel, and others gesturing in anger while the French defender disappeared into the changing room.

There were jeers and whistles from around Kenilworth Road as the officials and other Man United players made their way off the pitch at the end of the game.

It followed a match which saw Manchester United captain Bruno Fernandes taunted by Luton fans.

Hojlund's goals made him the youngest player ever to score in six consecutive Premier League games, 14 days after his 21st birthday - and afterwards, manager Erik ten Hag said that the Dane was a 'fighter' building his confidence with more goals.

The victory helped ten Hag's side to close the gap on the teams in front of them in the race for the Champions League spots.

Varane's crucial block denied Luton an opportunity to level following Harry Maguire's mistake

The home fans also taunted Man United captain Bruno Fernandes on Sunday afternoon

Sunday's match at Kenilworth Road was attended by pop star Harry Styles, who was spotted wearing Manchester United kit during his time with One Direction.

Styles shares an unlikely friendship with Rio Ferdinand, and enjoyed a kickabout with Man United legend David Beckham and his son Brooklyn in 2015.