Under-fire Red Bull chief Christian Horner has denied claims of a rift with Max Verstappen and his dad, Jos, amid an investigation into an accusation of 'inappropriate behaviour' against him.

Horner, who is the husband of former Spice Girl Geri Halliwell, is fighting to save his career after the allegations, which were made by a female Red Bull employee.

He denies all allegations and last week made his case to a KC, who is tasked as the internal investigator by the team who are the reigning world champions.

And on Thursday, at the launch of Red Bull's new car for the 2024 season, Horner again denied any claims of wrongdoing and rubbished reports of tension with three-time world champion Verstappen.

'No not at all (there is no friction),' Red Bull's Team Principal and CEO told Sky Sports News. 'I was with Jos and Max at Silverstone a couple of days ago.

Red Bull chief Christian Horner has denied claims of a rift with Max Verstappen and his dad

Horner - who is married to former Spice Girl Geri Halliwell - is fighting to save his career after allegations of 'inappropriate behaviour' were made against him by a colleague

Working with Red Bull Team Principal and CEO Horner, Verstappen has won three world titles

'Max is very focused on his job. He's been very supportive and I'm looking forward to the season ahead with him.

'There's always going to be speculation but we're together as one team, that's the way we've always been and that's the way we continue to be.

'The support from the shareholders has been phenomenal and without that support we wouldn't be here. So no, that's not correct.'

Verstappen - who has won the world championship for three successive seasons - echoed the words of Horner, as he said separately that their relationship was 'like normal'.

He added: 'It (our relationship) is very good. We have seen each other a couple of times, I've been on the simulator, he was also there when we were filming.

'We have achieved a lot of things together so that doesn't change suddenly.'

Horner, who has been at the helm of Red Bull since its launch in 2005, also revealed he had been working daily at Red Bull's factory since early January and insisted he would be at the season-opener in Bahrain.

Horner (right) was speaking at the launch of Red Bull's new car for the upcoming 2024 season

Verstappen (pictured with his dad Jos) insisted his relationship with Horner is 'like normal'

When questioned on the allegations on Thursday, the 50-year-old also claimed he had not considered stepping away from his role.

'No. It's business as usual,' he said. 'Obviously, I fully deny any accusations that have been made against me but of course I'll work with that process, which I hope is concluded in the near future.

'I can't comment on what that process consists (of). I'm confident obviously in the process and working with the process and deny absolutely any allegations being made.

'I just continue to work within that process until it's concluded.'