With the help of a local designer, Trummer has transformed his salubrious liar into a winter wonderland

It has attracted a run of celebrities with celebrities, Alicia being the most recent A lister spotted there

Albert Trummer opened his underground club DOM in Gramercy Park, New York, just over a year ago

An Arctic blast is steadily hitting large swathes of the US and getting into snowmageddon spirit of things, one New York nightclub has had a wintery transformation in the hope of luring adventurous party-goers out of their apartments.

'I used to throw parties in Austria for the likes of Arnold Schwarzenegger - he loves to ski and party - so I wanted to bring some of that après ski atmosphere to New York,' nightlife guru Albert Trummer tells me from his Manhattan nightclub, which has quickly become one of the hottest spots in town.

The Austrian native opened his underground club DOM just over a year ago, and thanks to his far-reaching connections, he has hosted a slew of parties for big-name brands and celebrities alike, with Alicia Keys being the most recent A-lister spotted there boogying the night away.

Trummer is known for his wild imagination - he designed his former bar in Chinatown after an apothecary with drinks marketed for their medicinal qualities - and now he has sprinkled some magic on DOM in the form of an après ski makeover.

With the help of a local designer, Trummer has transformed his salubrious Gramercy Park lair into a winter wonderland, which he says was inspired from his days hosting parties on the slopes of Lech, Austria, where everyone from Schwarzenegger to British royals would be in tow.

With the help of a local designer, nightlife maestro Albert Trummer has transformed his salubrious Gramercy Park club DOM into a winter wonderland

Tummer says he was inspired from his days hosting parties on the slopes of Lech, Austria, where everyone from Schwarzenegger to British royals would be in tow

DOM's makeover comes just in time, as temperatures in New York are set to plummet in the coming week, with readings well below freezing

Along with Alicia Keys (left), Christina Aguilera (right) is a fan of DOM and booked it out for a private party, while luxury powerhouse LVMH has also taken over the venue in the past

'They were great times in the 90s, such fun and now my club definitely takes me back to those days. It's all about great DJs, a great atmosphere and a crowd who want to party,' Albert muses.

DOM's makeover comes just in time, as temperatures in New York are set to plummet in the coming week, with readings well below freezing.

Trummer says people should dig out their finest winter gear for a ski-themed session at DOM.

The club will be open from 8pm daily to the early hours and there is no charge - but Albert says there is a strict door policy.

He likes to think of his customer base as sophisticated party goers, who dress to impress but don't take themselves too seriously.

Along with Alicia Keys, Christina Aguilera is a fan of DOM and booked it out for a private party, while luxury powerhouse LVMH has also taken over the venue in the past.

Stepping inside the club following its alpine facelift, you are suddenly transported to a European-esque chalet retreat complete with frosted fir trees, twinkling fairy lights and blizzards courtesy of a snow machine.

One thing that remains in place is Trummer's extensive art collection, with one side room from the main club area filled with contemporary wall hangings and quirky sculptures.

To get people in the spirit of the things, Trummer's team of mixologists (which includes his equally charismatic son, Jakob) have also launched a special drinks menu, with some of the libations including glühwein, hot toddies, and hot cider.

To get people in the spirit of the things, Trummer's team of mixologists (which includes his equally charismatic son, Jakob) have also launched a special drinks menu, with some of the libations including gluhwein, hot toddies, and hot cider

Trummer says a soft launch of his après ski spot saw people arrive in everything from ski goggles to fur hats and he imagines some even wackier ensembles will crop up in the coming weeks

One thing that remains in place is Trummer's extensive art collection, with one side room from the main club area filled with contemporary wall hangings and quirky sculptures

DOM's après ski theme is set to last for the next couple of weeks until New York Fashion Week arrives in February and the glitterati move in. Trummer (pictured center) says 'people really go to town' when it comes to partying at DOM

There will also be alpine shots, with some of Trummer's punchy 80-proof walnut elderberry liqueur thrown into the mix.

Trummer says a soft launch of his après ski spot saw people arrive in everything from ski goggles to fur hats and he imagines some even wackier ensembles will crop up in the coming weeks.

He says: 'I love it, people really go to town. This is what I love about this place, it can really be transformed and people get into character. We have had jungle parties, Studio 54 parties, Miami art parties... the list goes on.'

DOM's après ski theme is set to last for the next couple of weeks until New York Fashion Week arrives in February and the glitterati move in.

I bid Trummer a fond farewell, warmed not only by one of his libations, but his infectiously upbeat and dreamer spirit.