From a former army barracks in Malta to a building shaped like a Walnut Whip in Edinburgh, there’ll be a flurry of openings next year — take your pick for a deserved getaway.

MAKE IT MALTA

Hard Rock Hotel Malta in St Julian’s, opens in 2024 in an ex-British Army barracks. Expect great nightlife, a vast fitness area and pools. It’s huge: 370 rooms.

Details: Room rates yet to be set (hardrockhotels.com).

MANOR OF SPEAKING

Hotel Valldemossa opens in an old manor house in February

To the north of Palma in the Tramuntana mountains of Majorca, Hotel Valldemossa opens in an old manor house in February with a dozen rooms featuring modern art.

Details: Doubles from £239 B&B (valldemossahotel.com).

CORKER IN MAJORCA

In the pretty hillside town of Arta is the new Juz de Yartan ArtHotel, which opens in March, with a roof-top bar and fine pool.

Details: Doubles from £154 (yartanhotels.com).

MEXICAN RAVE

The Riviera Maya Edition, open in preview, is designer hotel with 182 rooms near a pristine beach in a 620-acre nature reserve. It’s close (but not too close) to Cancun.

Details: Doubles from £500 (editionhotels.com/riviera-maya).

BIG IN JAPAN

Occupying a dramatic new high-rise building, Janu Tokyo will open in March, with a sushi restaurant and spa.

Occupying a dramatic new high-rise building, Janu Tokyo will open in March

Details: Doubles from £800 (janu.com).

TEXAS TREAT

Bowie House in Fort Worth, Texas — just opened — has rooms with racks for your ten-gallon hat and a great steakhouse.

Details: Doubles from £340 (aubergeresorts.com).

FRENCH FANCY

In a convent dating from the 17th century, Hotel du Couvent in Nice will open in the spring with sea-view rooms, gardens and pools.

Details: Room rates yet to be set (hotelducouvent.com).

JUNGLE JEWEL

On Mexico’s Pacific coast, Our Habitas Mazunte has 28 treehouse-style rooms in thick jungle, close to Oaxaca. There’s also a private beach club.

Details: Doubles from £310 (ourhabitas.com).

EYES ON ITALY

Collegio alla Querce will open this summer in Florence with 82 rooms surrounded by a baroque terraced garden and a 35m pool.

Details: Room rates yet to be set (aubergeresorts.com).

ARABIAN NIGHTS

St Regis Red Sea on Saudi Arabia’s Red Sea coast — with its white sand and superb snorkelling — has 90 swanky rooms on a private island. Opens next month.

Details: Doubles from £1,700 (marriott.com).

FLORIDA FINERY

Opening in autumn, The Vineta on Palm Beach will be a 41-room boutique hotel right by the sands and close to the social whirl of Worth Avenue, too.

Opening in autumn, The Vineta on Palm Beach will be a 41-room boutique hotel right by the sands

Details: Room rates yet to be set (oetkercollection.com).

CZECH IT OUT

In the former Grand Hotel Europa, a 1905 art nouveau building, W Prague will have a roof-top bar, 161 rooms and spa.

Details: Room rates yet to be set (marriott.com).

JAMAICA JAMBOREE

For a swish all-inclusive hotel — look no further than Riu Palace Aquarelle in Jamaica. It’ll have top-class cuisine, a waterpark and spa.

Details: Seven nights all-inclusive including flights from £1,764 pp (tui.co.uk).

AND HERE ARE SOME OPENINGS IN THE UK...

SCOTTISH SURPRISES

W Edinburgh resembles a well-known chocolate - and offers 244 rooms

In the heart of Edinburgh — looking like a giant steel Walnut Whip — the just-opened W Edinburgh has 244 rooms and superb views. Japanese-Brazilian food is served at Sushi Samba on the 10th floor.

Details: Doubles from £283 (marriott.com).

Or check into 100 Princes Street, also Edinburgh, due to open by summer in the Royal Over-Seas League building. There’ll be 30 rooms and a luxurious lounge with uninterrupted views of the castle.

Details: Doubles from £330 B&B (100princes-street.com).

LOW-COST LONDON

March will see the Ruby Stella open in Clerkenwell, with a library-style bar and 153 rooms.

Details: Doubles from £153 (ruby-hotels.com).

MANCHESTER MUST

The Treehouse in Manchester opens in April with a roof-top bar and two restaurants.

Details: Doubles from £199 (treehousehotels.com/manchester).

OXFORD DREAM

Built in the former Oxford department store of Boswells on Broad Street, The Store hotel opens in March with a roof-top bar.

Details: Doubles from £285 B&B (thestoreoxford.com).

LOVELY LAKES

Doubles at beautiful Langdale Chase start from £290

Langdale Chase has reopened after a big renovation, with 30 rooms, two restaurants, a cinema and lawns fronting Windermere.

Details: Doubles from £290 B&B (langdalechase.co.uk).

FAST AND CURIOUS

Escapade opens in April with 60 rooms and suites with balconies overlooking Silverstone race track in Northamptonshire.

Details: Doubles from £199 (silverstone.co.uk).

SOMERSET CHIC

Holm, an acclaimed restaurant in South Petherton, has just opened seven chic new bedrooms.

Holm in Somerset has opened seven chic new bedrooms (above), which cost from £145 B&B

Details: B&B doubles from £145 (holmsomerset.co.uk).

NORTHERN DELIGHTS

Bailiffgate in Alnwick, Northumberland, is an old school that’s now a cool, new 48-bedroom hotel, opening in the summer.

Details: Doubles from £161 (bespokehotels.com/bailiffgate-hotel).

BRIGHTON ROCKS

A new boutique hotel in Brighton called 124 Kings Road will be set across four Georgian buildings by the beach when it opens in 2024.

Details: Doubles from £295 B&B (guesthousehotels.co.uk).

COSY IN CORNWALL

Sands Resort in Cornwall, near Watergate Bay, is being revamped as an aparthotel. Apartments come with kitchens. Opening by summer.

Details: Rates yet to be set (sandsresort.co.uk).