Jennifer Lopez was spotted carrying one of the rarest and most expensive Hermès Birkin bags in the world on Thursday morning.

The singer, 54, paired her glamorous outfit with her Himalayan crocodile Birkin bag, which is said to be valued at a staggering $150,000, as she greeted her loyal fans outside of ABC Studios.

She showed off the highly-coveted and hand-dyed bag, which is made out of albino Nile crocodile hide and retails on the resale market for $100,000 to $500,000.

She paired the exquisite bag with a lush fur jacket as she departed from the studio in New York City after making an appearance on The View.

She stepped out in a monochromatic, tan ensemble after previously modeling a bright blue blouse paired with a figure-hugging faux leather midi skirt.

Jennifer Lopez was spotted carrying one of the rarest and most expensive Hermès Birkin bags in the world on Thursday morning

Before heading over to Times Square to check out her many billboards, she showed off her incredible figure in a unique blazer top.

The garment highlighted her incredible physique with a plunging neckline, sexy cutouts and silver tassels lining the bottom.

She paired the wrap top with a pair of matching, baggy trousers with a very dramatic, low inseam. She also wore gloves matching her outfit.

Then, the Maid in Manhattan star added inches to her height with a pair of champagne gold, shiny peep-toe heels.

She threw up her hair into a topknot with face-framing tendrils. The Jenny from the Block hitmaker also wore oversize sunglasses and layers of silver chain necklaces.

The pièce de résistance of her look was her luxurious purse, which is a bag that Kim Kardashian, Kylie Jenner and Victoria Beckham also have in their personal collections.

In fact, the former Spice Girl is said to own the rarest diamond-embellished version, one of which is currently up for sale at Madison Avenue Couture for $500,000.

And in 2022, Sotheby's reported that they sold a Diamond Himalaya Birkin 30 for over $450,000 in a private sale.

The singer, 54, paired her glamorous outfit with her Himalayan crocodile Birkin bag, which is said to be valued at a staggering $150,000, as she greeted her loyal fans outside of ABC Studios. She showed off the highly-coveted and hand-dyed bag, which is made out of albino Nile crocodile hide and retails on the resale market for $100,000 to $500,000

She paired the exquisite bag with a lush fur jacket as she departed from the studio in New York City after making an appearance on The View

She threw up her hair into a topknot with face-framing tendrils. The Jenny from the Block hitmaker also wore oversize sunglasses and layers of silver chain necklaces. She also wore gloves matching her outfit

Lopez also has a lavish collection of Hermès bags as she is often spotted accessorizing her fabulous outfits with them.

She has also been seen using her Birkins as her gym bags on multiple occasions.

The pop star, who is worth $400 million, currently resides in a $60 million mansion, which she shares with husband Ben Affleck and where she dines on $500 Hermès plates.

The superstar even recently told Variety that she self-financed her $20 million three-part multimedia project.

During her appearance on The View, the show reportedly censored Lopez's response to one of the co-host's questions about doing so, according to a report by Entertainment Weekly.

When asked by co-host Ana Navarro about funding her project, the live audio was cut short.

'I think a lot of people couldn't understand it, so nobody wanted to finance it and nobody wanted to put it on their services,' she added.

'It was like, trust me. This is something new and exciting. At the end of the day, I was like, you know...' she said before the audio was muted.

Later, she was spotted in Times Square, posing alongside her many billboards. She also showed off her incredible figure in a unique blazer top

The garment highlighted her incredible physique with a plunging neckline, sexy cutouts and silver tassels lining the bottom

She paired the wrap top with a pair of matching, baggy trousers with a very dramatic, low inseam

Then, the Maid in Manhattan star added inches to her height with a pair of champagne gold, shiny peep-toe heels

She posed with her many billboards in front of a crowd of fans ahead of her musical movie and album release on Friday

When the show's audio came back, Lopez was laughing and the audience was applauding.

'...And then I'll show them. I'll show them!' she said. 'Then, when I showed them, they were like, "Oh, we love that!"'

Her album and musical movie, both titled This Is Me... Now, are set to debut on Friday, February 16.

Her documentary, The Greatest Love Story Never Told, will be released on February 27.