Kylie Minogue turned heads while donning an eye-catching gown as she attended the 2024 People's Choice Awards in Santa Monica on Sunday.

The Australian singer, 55 - who recently received a Grammy award for her track Padam Padam earlier this month - joined other celebrities on the red carpet ahead of her performance at the event which took place at Barker Hangar.

The songstress stunned in a strapless, emerald green dress that contained a structured bodice and fell down to brush the ground.

A thigh-slit could be seen on the right side that offered a sultry flare and the beauty slipped into a pair of open-toed, black Christian Louboutin heels.

Her blonde locks were parted in the middle, and flowed down past her shoulders in light waves, allowing her bangs to border the sides of her face.

Kylie Minogue, 55, turned heads while donning an eye-catching gown as she attended the 2024 People's Choice Awards in Santa Monica on Sunday

The songstress stunned in a strapless, emerald green dress that contained a structured bodice and fell down to brush the ground

Kylie opted for minimal accessories to allow the gown to be the main focal point, and wore a dainty pair of earrings as well as a silver ring on her right hand.

The star's makeup was glammed up for the festivities, and comprised of a layer of mascara to her lashes as well as a shimmering shadow around her eyes.

A warm blush was added to better accentuate her cheekbones, while a nude-colored tint was worn on her lips and bordered by a darker lipliner.

Minogue flashed a cheerful smile and a variety of poses to show off her outfit upon arriving to the venue.

The singer notably performed during the ceremony as well as Music Icon Award winner Lenny Kravitz and country singer Lainey Wilson.

She stepped onto the stage to sing her track titled, Padam Padam - which is the lead single on her 2023 album Tension.

Kylie had an outfit change for the performance and donned a figure-hugging, red dress that contained a draped sleeve on the left side and ruched details on the front.

The ensemble also had a thigh-high slit, easily revealing a pair of red, patent leather boots that reached above her knees.

A thigh-slit could be seen on the right side that offered a sultry flare and the beauty slipped into a pair of open-toed, black Christian Louboutin heels

Kylie opted for minimal accessories to allow the gown to be the main focal point, and wore a dainty pair of earrings as well as a silver ring on her right hand

The star's makeup was glammed up for the festivities, and comprised of a layer of mascara to her lashes as well as a shimmering shadow around her eyes

Minogue flashed a cheerful smile and a variety of poses to show off her outfit upon arriving to the venue

The singer notably performed during the ceremony along with Music Icon Award winner Lenny Kravitz and country singer Lainey Wilson

Minogue showcased her vocal skills as she performed for the cheering crowd and also flaunted her dance skills with some of her backup dancers.

Earlier this month, Padam Padam won a Grammy for Best Pop Dance Recording - and was Kylie's second Grammy win overall.

She previously won the esteemed award 20 years earlier for Best Dance Recording for the song Come Into My World.

While talking to The Hollywood Reporter at the People's Choice Awards on Sunday, the songstress reflected on the recent Grammy win and her reaction.

'I screamed, I got a little teary and I just reeled it in before I got to the ugly cry,' she told the outlet on the red carpet.

'I felt elated, very moved, super moved. And I thought, "Right I got nothing to worry about now so go and enjoy the Grammys," which I did.'

Late last year in November, Minogue also kicked off her Las Vegas residency at The Venetian Hotel inside the Voltaire.

She will return to the city for more concert dates next month beginning on March 8, and will continue to perform on select days throughout April and also May.

She stepped onto the stage to sing her track titled, Padam Padam - which is the lead single on her 2023 album Tension

The ensemble also had a thigh-high slit, easily revealing a pair of red, patent leather boots that reached above her knees

Minogue showcased her vocal skills as she performed for the cheering crowd and also flaunted her dance skills with some of her backup dancers

Earlier this month, Padam Padam won a Grammy for Best Pop Dance Recording - and was Kylie's second Grammy win overall

She previously won the esteemed award 20 years earlier for Best Dance Recording for the song Come Into My World

While discussing the experience, Kylie also told The Hollywood Reporter, 'It's been incredible. The audiences are fire. They are just getting wilder every show.'

'It's a very intimate show...,' she continued, adding, 'The import of energy is as much, if not more, as a huge show because you're right there. There's no where to run to. No where to hide. You're right there.'

She also opened up about the support from her fans throughout her career over the decades and said, 'I hope that I let them know often enough that, you know, there is no show without them.'

'I appreciate their love and support and fandom. You know for some people, it's over 30 years. Other people have kind of got on in the last year. So welcome!'

While talking to The Hollywood Reporter at the People's Choice Awards on Sunday, the songstress reflected on the recent Grammy win and her reaction

'I felt elated, very moved, super moved. And I thought, "Right I got nothing to worry about now so go and enjoy the Grammys," which I did,' she said; seen at the Grammy Awards earlier this month in L.A.

Late last year in November, Minogue also kicked off her Las Vegas residency at The Venetian Hotel inside the Voltaire. She will return to the city for more concert dates next month beginning on March 8; seen in November 2023 in Las Vegas

Minogue also gushed about being about to 'connect' with fans and added, 'It's a beautiful thing and I feel very privileged to be a small part of their lives and they are definitely a part of mine.'

Next month, the Australian-born singer will receive the Icon Award at the 2024 Billboard Women In Music ceremony.

The star talked to Billboard at the People's Choice Awards and opened up about being recognized with the honor.

'It could make me cry, very easily. I don't think any of us do it for recognition but it's certainly nice,' she expressed.