If you’re searching for something beyond the ordinary, these exceptional finds will not disappoint. Each item in this selection stands out for its unique appeal, whether a handcrafted piece or a cutting-edge gadget.

Thanks for reading about our favorite finds from across the internet! FYI: We participate in affiliate programs and may get a share of the revenue from your purchase.

Personalized Travels Amazon Give the gift of a personalized dop kit. This is an item that everyone needs and one that a lot of folks don’t care to purchase themselves. This is undoubtedly a thoughtful gift to make their travels easier. Find it on Amazon

We Love Letters On a Necklace Amazon Design a custom name necklace with this dainty 18K gold plated choker style that can be personalized to any length with letters spelling whatever your heart desires. Find it on Amazon

Make Their Morning Routine Easier Amazon For those with long and thick hair, you’ll change their morning routine drastically with this special towel that dries hair in half the time and tames frizz all at once. They’ll never have to leave the house in a rush with wet hair again. Find it on AmazonFind it on Walmart

Custom Laser-Engraved Pet Collar Amazon For your pet-obsessed friends and family, wow them instantly this holiday season with a personalized floral dog collar with a metal buckle that holds a laser-engraved name. Find it on Amazon

Best-Selling Digital Notebook Amazon They will never run out of notebook paper with this gadget. Whether a college student who wants to organize better notes or a girl boss who likes to stay on top of her paperwork, this thin digital notepad is as lightweight as a standard notebook. It allows for writing directly onto the page and saving each document for later. Find it on Amazon

Weekday Lunch Cleanup Amazon Even though we shouldn’t, sometimes we eat our lunch at our work desk. Make it a quick clean-up for you and your coworkers with this handy desktop vacuum cleaner made just for this small surface with its cordless and rotating design. Find it on AmazonFind it on Walmart

This Was Totally Invented By the Bookworms Amazon Only bookworms understand the hassle of touching the screen to turn the next page on your book when using a Kindle or tablet. With this remote-click page-turner, keep the story moving and at the pace of your reading with the touch of a button. Find it on Amazon

Screen Time Resolutions Amazon If having a lower screen time is on your list of resolutions for the New Year, this is just the gadget for you and your new discipline. Just put your phone inside the lockbox and lock it with a timer. Problem solved! Find it on AmazonFind it on Walmart

Easy Meditations with Tone Therapy Amazon TikTok has made accessing thoughtful tools for actively engaging in mindfulness easier. These tone therapy meditation disks are meant to be placed on either side of the body to release a full meditative 3-minute healing sound bath that’s helped thousands of Tokers with their anxiety. Find it on Amazon

The Life-Changing Magic of Heatless Curls Amazon This brand is known for its innovative and protective hair styling products like this heatless curling headband that takes wet hair from a night shower and turns it into big bouncy curls the following day without harmful heat damage from a hot tool! Find it on AmazonFind it on Walmart

Home to a Fragrant Nest Amazon This essential oil diffuser is the most innovative, with app controls and Alexa connectivity. This gadget comes with a complete fragrance kit that features the scents we love from best-selling Nest candles in a concentrated oil form that spreads through the home for up to 220 hours. Find it on AmazonFind it on Walmart

They Won’t Regret This in Their Workspace Amazon This coffee mug has been designed to keep your beverage warm no matter how long ago you first poured the cup. This gadget is the perfect addition to a home office or cubicle, making a workspace more enjoyable. Find it on AmazonFind it on Walmart

We Could All Use Some Healing Light Amazon In a world saturated in blue light from abundant technology and screentime, red light therapy is a healing night-time practice that helps calm the nervous system and reverse the damaging effects of blue light exposure. Find it on Amazon

This Will Change the Way You’re Reading Amazon Experience the freedom of carrying a library of books from the convenience of a lightweight and backlit reading tablet. With wifi connectivity, you can pair this device with your GoodReads and Audible account for an incredible reading experience. Find it on Amazon

Welcome to a New Level of Entertainment Amazon For tech nerds, the Apple TV makes all your devices work in harmony for the most efficient forms of productivity and high-quality personalized entertainment. Find it on AmazonFind it on Walmart

The Perfect Pair of Home Lounging Shoes Amazon These knit sheepskin slippers are everything we love about the classic UGG boot, but now in a super casual slip-on for lounging around the house or talking to the dog for a quick walk around the neighborhood. Find it on Amazon

Hands-Free Pot Stirring Amazon This kitchen gadget changes the game when it comes to cooking. Instead of standing by the stove manually stirring the pot the entire time, this self-rotating stirrer can stand independently and mix at three adjustable levels for various foods. Find it on AmazonFind it on Walmart

The Best Work Space Organizer Amazon One of the most important places to keep clean and organized must be your workplace! It is impossible to be productive and efficient when your surroundings aren’t clean and neat! This desk organizer is a must-have for anyone who works at home and has trouble tidying their desk space. Find it on Amazon

Perfect Gel Nails Right at Home Amazon For the girl who likes to keep a nice manicure at all times, this simple kit is easy to store and has everything she needs to do her own shiny gel manicure at home without waiting hours at the nail salon. Find it on Amazon

Never Lose Track of Your Valuables Amazon These tiny item finder tags have Bluetooth and GPS tracking capabilities for recording the exact location of your keys, luggage, or even pets and come with a simple but heavy-duty attachment clip. Find it on AmazonFind it on Walmart

For a Snatched Jawline Amazon For the face-rolling fanatic, this gadget molds ice to the perfect shape for contouring and de-puffing all over the face, jawline, and neck. It keeps cold longer than the typical ice roller and is way more comfortable. Find it on AmazonFind it on Walmart

Fuzzy, Pink & Fabulous Amazon For a seriously fabulous and fashion-forward gift, these fluffy earmuffs are just the pretty and pink thing your friend needs to keep their ears nice and warm in the cold. Find it on Amazon

Better Than Leather Amazon This convenient travel makeup bag has two storage layers for beauty products and accessories. The surface is made of a durable, scratch-resistant, and waterproof material similar to leather to the touch. Find it on Amazon

The Ultimate Breakfast Maker Amazon This is the ultimate breakfast gadget! Cook eggs, waffles, pancakes, and even hash browns quickly in this mini maker by DASH. Plus, it’s a super cute pink addition to any kitchen countertop. Find it on Amazon

A Safe Way to Accessorize Amazon Make sure your people are safe with this keychain pepper spray. They aren’t the cutest-looking accessory on their own, but this special pink version makes it much better, and your friend will feel so much safer in the face of danger. Find it on AmazonFind it on Walmart

Keep Up with the Driver Essentials Amazon This car organizer fits all the auto essentials like sunglasses, IDs, Credit Cards, Insurance, and Registration. There is even a convenient spot for a notepad and pen. The elastic bands make it easy to adjust to any make or model’s sun visor and ensure you never drive without the necessities. Find it on AmazonFind it on Walmart

Soothe the Tension Amazon This sore muscle massage oil has lavender and chamomile essential oils that will help melt away muscle tension. This is great for massaging muscles after a hard workout or easing tension after a long day. Find it on AmazonFind it on Walmart

Best Gift For the Traveler Amazon For the travelers to keep all accessories intact during travel. There are a variety of compartment sizes, and it even folds up so as not to take up too much space in a suitcase. Find it on Amazon

The Art of Fashion Amazon This hardcover jumbo coffee table book details Tom Ford’s iconic fashion contributions and his work for Gucci and Yves Saint Laurent from 1994 to 2004. This popular book is both a decorative statement and historical literature. Find it on Amazon

This Gadget Is Seriously the Apple of Our Eye Amazon Unwind with this eye massager equipped with compression and vibration to relieve dry, strained eyes and help ease you into relaxation before bed. Find it on AmazonFind it on Walmart

This Jar of Expletives Amazon Caution: a sense of humor is required for gifting! Using responsibly sourced wood, each jar is lovingly filled with laser-cut expletives and the laser carved wooden card that reads, “f**** to give.” Find it on Amazon

Sleep Soundly In Satin Amazon This satin sleepwear short and tee set has us feeling like Eloise at the Plaza with its adorable white and pink candy stripes and black satin trim. Find it on Amazon

The Ultimate Bathtub Accessory Amazon If they appreciate a good bubble bath at the end of a long day, they will love this bamboo bathtub caddy with enough space for a laptop or tablet, a beverage, and even a candle. Talk about relaxation! Find it on AmazonFind it on Walmart