She failed to pick up the gong in her nominated category, Best Supporting Actress, at the BAFTA Film Awards at the Royal Festival Hall on Sunday evening.

But despite losing out to Da'vine Joy Randolph, Rosamund Pike was still smiling as she arrived at the British Vogue and Tiffany & Co party at Annabel's.

The actress, who was nominated for her role as Elspeth Catton in Saltburn, cut a typically kooky figure in a Simone Rocha outfit.

Rosamund, 45, looked sensational in the semi-sheer chiffon blouse, which was embroidered with a series of snakes and all-seeing eyes.

The statement piece was teamed with a matching puff-ball style skirt, which showcased her endless legs with its see-through fabric.

Rosamund Pike was smiling as she arrived at the British Vogue and Tiffany & Co party at Annabel's on Sunday evening at the BAFTA Film Awards

The actress, who was nominated for her role of Elspeth Catton in Saltburn, cut a typically kooky figure in a Simone Rocha outfit

Rosamund wore her cropped locks swept back off her face and opted for a natural coat of make-up in soft tones.

The I Care A Lot actress accessorised the quirky outfit with a pair of perspex heels and studded earrings, as well as costume-style rings.

Rosamund lost to Randolph, who was crowned victorious in the Best Supporting Actress category for her part in The Holdovers.

Randolph took to the stage and told Chiwetel Ejiofor, who was presenting the award, 'you are so handsome' - prompting laughter from the audience.

On a more serious note, she said: 'Thank you for trusting me with this beautiful character.

Becoming emotional, she said being able to 'wear this beautiful gown, standing on the stage in London, is not a responsibility I take lightly'.

Randolph plays school cook Mary in the film set at a boarding school in the early 1970s.

Oppenheimer has won Best Film as well as sweeping the board in the major categories at the EE BAFTA Film Awards at The Royal Festival Hall on Sunday.

Earlier in the evening, Rosamund arrived on the red carpet in a flippy pale blue dress

Rosamund lost to Randolph, who was crowned victorious in the Best Supporting Actress category for her part in The Holdovers

The epic biographical thriller led the wins with seven gongs, including Best Actor for Cillian Murphy, Best Supporting Actor for Robert Downey Jr. and Best Director for Christopher Nolan. It had the most nominations with 13.

The biggest night in British film returned with actor David Tennant as host and an array of guest presenters on hand to deliver awards throughout the night.

Prince William attended the ceremony in London solo as his wife Kate Middleton continues her recovery from last month's abdominal surgery.