For free real time breaking news alerts sent straight to your inbox sign up to our breaking news emails Sign up to our free breaking news emails Please enter a valid email address Please enter a valid email address SIGN UP I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our privacy notice Thanks for signing up to the

Breaking News email {{ #verifyErrors }} {{ message }} {{ /verifyErrors }} {{ ^verifyErrors }} Something went wrong. Please try again later {{ /verifyErrors }}

Xenoblade Chronicles 3 is out on the Nintendo Switch and it’s already made our list of the best games you can play on the handheld.

Announced on 19 April, Xenoblade Chronicles 3 is now being released a full two months ahead of schedule on 29 July 2022, much to the joy of Nintendo Switch fans.

Each game in the series is loosely connected, but Nintendo has confirmed that Xenoblade Chronicles 3 will bridge the gap between the previous two mainline titles.

In our review of the game, we said: “Xenoblade Chronicles 3 is the strongest entry into the series yet, while simultaneously managing to bridge the themes and mechanics of the first two games in a meaningful way.”

Players will control seven characters including a new protagonist named Noah. One new battle mechanic being implented into the game is called “Ouroboros mode”, where two characters can combine into a giant form, each with their own powerful moev set.

In order to help you find the best deals for Xenoblade Chronicles 3 we’ve compiled the list and information below.

Best deals for ‘Xenoblade Chronicles 3’

‘Xenoblade Chronicles 3’ expansion pass details

During a Nintendo Direct focused on Xenoblade Chronicles 3, a new expansion pass was revealed for the game, entitling players to additional post-launch content after the game’s release.

(Nintendo)

Not only does the expansion pass give players outfit variations and useful items on launch day, new character quests and a brand new story mode will also be made available to players in 2023, a year after the game’s release, with four waves of new content.

The Xenoblade Chronicles 3 Expansion Pass is available for pre-purchase beginning today in Nintendo eShop for £26.99. Find out more on the official Nintendo website.

Buy the expansion pass

‘Xenoblade Chronicles 3’ collector’s edition

(Nintendo)

If you were hoping to pick up the collector’s edition of the game along with Xenoblade Chronicles 3,then Nintendo has an update for those hoping to pre-order it.

A statement on Nintendo’s website reads: “Due to unforeseen logistical challenges, we are unable to open pre-orders for the Xenoblade Chronicles 3 collector’s edition before the game launches.

“To give customers the flexibility to purchase and enjoy the game at launch, we will now be offering the contents of the collector’s edition as a separate purchase at a price that does not include the Xenoblade Chronicles 3 software.

“This means you can buy the Xenoblade Chronicles 3 game when it launches on 29 July 2022, and have a chance to pre-order the collector’s edition contents on My Nintendo Store later in September.”

As it stands, the collector’s edition will now contain the following items:

Package artwork from character artist Masatsugu Saito

Softcover concept artbook

A steel case for the game card

In order to hear more about the collector’s edition of Xenoblade Chronicles 3, you can register your email address on Nintendo’s website to hear updates on pre-orders and product news.

Voucher codes

If you’re looking for discounts on technology or videogames, then try one of these codes:

Want to find out more information about Xenoblade Chronicles 3? Read more about the game’s announcement