I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our privacy notice

Get the Independent's betting newsletter for the latest tips and offers

There is no available Unibet promo code for February, but customers are still able to claim the Unibet sportsbook sign up offer which includes a casino bonus. Alternatively, there is a casino or poker welcome offer instead. You need to sign up as a new customer and then opt-in to one of these offers when registering, with no Unibet promo code required. Make sure you deposit using a debit card to get the Unibet bonus. All other payment methods are exempt from this promotion. Offer 1: £40 Money Back on Sports at Unibet + £10 Casino Bonus Sign up to Unibet via the link here to get moneyback as a bonus up to £40 if your first bet loses. You can also get a £10 casino bonus. Create your Unibet account and opt-in to this offer. You then need to make a minimum deposit of £10. Place a bet with a minimum £1 stake at odds of 2/5 (1.40) or greater. This offer isn’t valid for , greyhound racing, trotting or virtual sports.

If your first bet loses, you will be refunded your stake in bonuses up to a maximum of £40. These bonuses need to be wagered at least three times at minimum odds of 2/5 (1.40) before any winnings can be withdrawn. The sportsbook bonus also needs to be wagered before you can use the casino bonus.



The £10 Unibet casino bonus is subject to a 50x wagering requirement.

Offer 2: £40 Money Back on Horse Racing at Unibet + £10 Casino Bonus This Unibet welcome offer involves the same steps as Offer 1. The only difference is that you need to place a first qualifying bet on racing only. This includes horse racing, greyhound racing and trotting.

Established 1997 £40 Money Back on Horse Racing at Unibet + £10 Casino Bonus VISIT SITE #ad. 18+. Gamble Responsibly. Begambleaware.org. http://BeGambleAware.org . New customers only. Min Dep £10. Debit cards only. Opt in for bonus funds. Wagering, sportsbook 3x at min. odds of 1.40 (2/5), casino 50x. Sports bonus must be wagered before using the casino bonus. Valid for 7 days. Geographical Restrictions and T&Cs Apply. - Full Terms Apply

Offer 3: Deposit £10 to Get a £40 Casino Bonus The primary casino welcome offer involves a 400 per cent bonus on your first deposit. This bonus will be credited instantly to customers that have opted in once the deposit has been made. The bonus money needs to be wagered 50 times on products before a withdrawal can be made. One hundred per cent of the total stake used for the majority of slot games contributes to the wagering requirement, although there are some listed exceptions.

Established 1997 Deposit £10, Get £40 VISIT SITE #ad. 18+. Gamble Responsibly. Begambleaware.org. New Customers Only. Minimum deposit £10. 50x wagering requirement apply. Bonus will expire 30 days after opt-in. Further T&Cs apply. - Full Terms Apply

Offer 4: Deposit to Get £20 Extra Poker Money + £500 Play-Through Bonus There is no Unibet promo code needed for this poker welcome offer. Make a deposit and get £20 extra in your bankroll which is broken down as follows: 1 x €8 cash game ticket

4 x €5 Unibet UK Tour tournament tickets The £500 playthrough bonus is activated when you make a first deposit from the poker client. These bonuses are released in instalments, with rake from all poker games contributing towards the playthrough requirements.

Established 1997 £500 Play Through Bonus + £20 Extra on Deposit VISIT SITE #ad. 18+. Gamble Responsibly. Begambleaware.org. New Customers Only. £20 extra = one cash game ticket of €8 and 4 x UK Tour tournament tickets of €4. £500 Playthrough bonus = €600. Both bonuses are activated upon first deposit from the poker client. Tickets expire after 35 days and the playthrough bonus after 60. £1 GBP = €1.1875. Selected games only. BeGambleaware.org. - Full Terms Apply

Unibet offers and promotions Once you have taken advantage of a Unibet new customer offer, you are then able to benefit from promotions designed for existing players.



For the sportsbook, these are the ongoing promos: Acca Boosts: You can multiply your winnings on a daily basis when it comes to horse racing accumulators. The racing acca can be boosted three times a day.

You can multiply your winnings on a daily basis when it comes to horse racing accumulators. The racing acca can be boosted three times a day. Bet Builder – Daily Uniboost: you can place a Bet Builder on a daily basis and get a Uniboost so that your potential winnings are increased.

– Daily Uniboost: you can place a Bet Builder on a daily basis and get a Uniboost so that your potential winnings are increased. Best Odds Guaranteed : The BOG offer is available for UK and Irish horse racing meetings from 8am on the day of the race. Take an early price on your horse and get paid out at SP if it’s bigger.

: The BOG offer is available for UK and Irish horse racing meetings from 8am on the day of the race. Take an early price on your horse and get paid out at SP if it’s bigger. Money Back : Get a if your horse finishes second or third in selected races.

: Get a if your horse finishes second or third in selected races. Extra Places : There will be daily selected races where you’re able to get additional places when it comes to each-way betting.

: There will be daily selected races where you’re able to get additional places when it comes to each-way betting. Price Boost & Super Boost : Unibet will select daily races where you can get boosted prices on individual runners or the whole field.

: Unibet will select daily races where you can get boosted prices on individual runners or the whole field. Daily Racing Uniboost: Choose a horse you want to back and then boost the odds for that selection. These offers and promos are also available for the big horse racing meetings throughout the year, and the upcoming Cheltenham Festival is no different. For the 2024 renewal you can avail of the , which gives new customers a very generous sign up bonus to use throughout the week of action.

Why should you join Unibet? Unibet are regarded as one of the biggest and have a number of high-profile racing ambassadors including Nicky Henderson. Sports and racing are kept separate with customers able to enjoy a user-friendly interface on desktop, mobile and app when they place their bets. Unibet are also a market leader when it comes to In-Play betting and customers are also able to benefit from a live streaming service without needing to have a subscription. Other sign-up offers from recommended online betting sites:







