You can enable subtitles (captions) in the video player

Where are you going in that top?

I can do what I want. This is a democracy.

And if something happens to you then father of democracy will come to save you? The father of democracy, that Greek fellow called... Look it up!

See, I have nothing against the Greeks. They gave us this great yoghurt which is very good for bowel movement. But all this democracy nonsense - for the people, of the people, by the people.

Except women and commoners because they were not people only at that time. You are both. Even when the name democracy came out that time, it was democracy in name only. So now is not the time for you to walk out of the house in that top.

What about my freedom of expression?

It is not your expression I'm bothered about but other people's expression on your expression. Freedom of expression. Don't throw that in my face. We are the world's largest democracy. For the people, of the people, by the people.

That's because we also have the largest number of people in the world, Pa.

Exactly. So why should the woman on the street care about your right to agitate your father and freedom of expression? She cannot dip her chapati in a vat of democracy and eat. Oh wow, this tastes like power of the people. Democracy is for people who have full stomachs and rich fathers.

Oh ah, Uh!

Are you OK?

Yeah, I'm OK. But see, Papa, you can care for more than one thing at the same time.

Nobody cares more than us. And what has all this caring gotten us so far? In all these international meet-ups, like these Brics and Tricks and Nato and Plato and all? They ruffle our hair and pinch our cheeks.

So cute, gulu, gulu. Who's the world's largest democracy? Others build their empires using the excuse of democracy because they make the rules.

They get to use them as weapons. They will raise their economic values while we are the keeper of their moral values. Huh?

It's this democracy nonsense that has kept us poor. And then they will finger wag at us to save water. Indians should not wash their bums.

Think of all the poor billionaires that don't have artificial snow slopes to ski down. And then they say we give democracy a bad name. How rich of them, which is what they are.

Even their moral fibre is made from threads they have stolen from others.

See? This is why we need a dictatorship.

Yeah, our ancestors must have really enjoyed being enslaved by the British, which is why we want that back but now with our homemade tyrants.

Don't argue with me.

The only way you want a dictatorship is if you are the dictator. At least now we have a choice.

The illusion of choice.

Well, that's what keeps you hopeful and engaged.

And what have you gotten with all this hope and engagement?

A democracy and a chance to have this discussion with you, my cutie pie.

Why are you wanting to put your body out on the line for a world that does not want to accommodate your humanity?

Because one day, it will. It's not perfect, and it's not going to happen overnight. But knowing that that day is coming makes it worth it. The world can make a woman, Papa, but only in a democracy can a woman make her own world.

Live life a little. All this idealism will be gone.

Remember to take your medicine.

No car keys for you. You're defending common man so much, you know? So one day go out and live as common woman and see what the world is like.

Did you take your medicines? Papa, you know you're supposed to take them with consistency. That's the only way they're going to be effective.

The doctors have told you time and again that you need to do this because you don't want to go to hospital again, flirting with the nurses. You know how awkward it gets playing Ludo with everybody, telling people you can cure cancer with ginger? Papa, please.

Don't teach me all this. I can do what I want. This is a democracy.

And then who will come to save you? Mother of democracy?