For free real time breaking news alerts sent straight to your inbox sign up to our breaking news emails Sign up to our free breaking news emails Please enter a valid email address Please enter a valid email address SIGN UP I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our privacy notice Thanks for signing up to the

Breaking News email {{ #verifyErrors }} {{ message }} {{ /verifyErrors }} {{ ^verifyErrors }} Something went wrong. Please try again later {{ /verifyErrors }}

Hogwarts Legacy is an open world tie-in to the wizarding world of Harry Potter. Developed by Avalanche Software and published by Warner Bros. Interactive this game will take students into the ever-changing halls of Hogwarts as we’ve never seen them before. The game was recently delayed but, according to the game’s developers, is now scheduled to be released in early 2023.

Set before the events of Fantastic Beasts, players will attend Hogwarts in the 19th century as a customisable student in one of the four main houses: Gryffindor, Slytherin, Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff.

The avatar student will be entering the school of wizardry in their fifth year, making them something of a late-bloomer in the magic world, but who is capable of manipulating ancient magic. There’s a sudden resurgence in this forgotten magic and it’s up to players to find its source as well as the people who are trying to harness it.

As Hogwarts Legacy is set before any of the books or films, the main cast of characters will remain absent but a handful of familiar faces are set to make an appearance, including Nearly Headless Nick and Peeves the poltergeist.

During a Playstation State of Play event, the wizardly role-playing game was finally given a release window before it was delayed, but now the developers have confirmed which day it will be released. If you want to find out when you will be able to explore Hogwarts, then keep reading the rest of the article below.

Has ‘Hogwarts Legacy’ release date been delayed?

In a post on the official Hogwarts Legacy Twitter page, a release date of 10 February 2023 has now been given for the game, after initially being scheduled to release in the holiday season of 2022.

The post reads: “The team is excited for you to play, but we need a little more time to deliver the best possible game experience.”

The game was originally revealed in September 2020, with Hogwarts Legacy given a release date for some time in 2021. Unfortunately, due to delays caused in part by the global pandemic, the game’s scheduled release was subsequently pushed back to an undisclosed date.

During Playstation’s live-stream of Hogwarts Legacy gameplay, a release window of “holidays 2022”was finally given, meaning that we were expecting to see the new game released sometime before Christmas, but it looks like fans of the franchise will have to wait a few more months before they will be able to explore the school of witchcraft and wizardry.

Which platforms will ‘Hogwarts Legacy’ appear on?

Hogwarts Legacy was originally slated to appear on the Playstation 4, Playstation 5, Xbox One, Xbox series X/S and PC.

Nintendo fans also had a surprise, when Avalanche Software confirmed that the game will be appearing on the Nintendo Switch. It’s currently unclear if this will be a physical/downloadable version of the game or if it will be a cloud-based version, similar to the release of Dying Light 2: Stay Human, but it means that players will be able to take their wizarding journeys with them. While the Playstation, Xbox and PC releases have a confirmed release date, the Nintendo Switch launch date has yet to be revealed. We’ll keep you posted as soon as we see it.

Can you play as an evil wizard?

During the gameplay reveal, we see the main character casting what is perhaps the most famous killing curse – “Avada Kedavra”. This suggests that there is a chance for players to master the dark arts.

Everything from your choice of companions to house (if you’re inclined to pick Slytherin) can have an affect on the overall story. And while it’s currently unclear how those choices might work in Hogwarts Legacy, its open-ended nature could mean that there are multiple possible endings.

Whether this will allow players to fully lean into their dark side and become Voldemort’s predecessor remains to be seen though.

Is JK Rowling involved with ‘Hogwarts Legacy’?

According to an FAQ on the official Hogwarts Legacy website, the Harry Potter author is not directly involved with the game’s development.

The post answers: “Each experience offered under Portkey Games will take place in the wizarding world and will be authentic to it. JK Rowling is supportive of Portkey Games and has entrusted the design and creation of its titles to Warner Bros. Games and the developers involved.

“Her team have also collaborated with Warner Bros. Games on all aspects of Hogwarts Legacy to ensure it remains a true part of the Wizarding World experience and is in line with the creativity and magic that fans expect.

“The story showcased in the game is not a new story from JK Rowling.”

Can players customise their characters in ‘Hogwarts Legacy?’

The FAQ also states that players will be able to fully customise their chosen character, whether they decide to play as a witch or wizard.

Players can choose their characters at the onset of their adventure and as progress is made, they’ll also be able to develop their own special combat style.

Voucher codes

If you’re looking for discounts on technology or videogames then try one of these codes:

Looking for another open world fantasy adventure? Read our full review of Xenoblade Chronicles 3