Sign up to our free Living Well email for advice on living a happier, healthier and longer life Live your life healthier and happier with our free weekly Living Well newsletter Please enter a valid email address Please enter a valid email address SIGN UP I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our privacy notice Thanks for signing up to the

Living Well email {{ #verifyErrors }} {{ message }} {{ /verifyErrors }} {{ ^verifyErrors }} Something went wrong. Please try again later {{ /verifyErrors }}

The sixth season of Love Is Blind has officially dropped, with a set of 30 new singles now entering the pods.

On 14 February 2024, fans saw the beloved series make yet another return, with hosts Nick and Vanessa Lachey. The season followed the same layout as the previous ones, but this time with contestants from Charlotte, North Carolina entered the pods, where they got on dates with people without ever seeing them in real life. From there, contestants go on to get engaged in the pods, before meeting for the first time.

Following the usual array of love triangles and drama in the first six episodes of season six, five couples walked away engaged: Amy and Johnny, Amber Desirre “AD” and Clay, Chelsea and Jimmmy, Jeramy and Laura, and Kenneth and Brittany.

The couples have now headed into their romantic vacations, before they go and move into their apartment togethers in North Carolina. After days of living together, they will decide at the end of the season if they’ll say “I do” or not at the altar.

Although we don’t know who made it down the aisle, the next three episodes of the season will be airing on 21 February, followed by three more episodes dropping on 28 February. The season finale, where viewers will see couples get married, airs on 6 March.

The first season dropped in February 2020 and saw 30 men and women form deep connections over the space of 10 days while speaking to, but not seeing, each other in “pods”.

This resulted in six couples getting engaged, with the goal to decide whether or not to commit to marriage by the end of the season - all in less than two months. Out of the season one couples who made it past the post-engagement vacation - which saw Carlton Morton and Diamond Jack split - who’s still together? Well, only two pairs are still going strong.

Lauren Speed-Hamilton and Cameron Hamilton

The fan favourite from the start, Lauren and Cameron were the first to fall in love, get engaged and see each other face-to-face for the first time post-engagement.

Their relationship continued to get stronger throughout the series, and the pair both said “I do” in the final episode.

In November 2021, the couple celebrated their third wedding anniversary – and Lauren’s 34th birthday – by sharing sweet tributes to each other on social media. “Happy birthday to my best friend!” Cameron captioned a smiling selfie of the couple. “Thank you for marrying me on your birthday three years ago. As someone once said, ‘I am your gift’ but it was really like my birthday because I’ve found happiness with you that I never had before. I love you and the person you are”.

Since season one, the two have launched a YouTube channel together, called Hanging With the Hamiltons, and even co-wrote a book together, titled Leap of Faith.

Giannina Gibelli and Damian Powers

Giannina and Damian’s relationship was very up and down during their season, with it resulting in Damian saying “no” when the pair reached the altar and Giannina running off in tears.

However, the pair did get back together following the split, with Giannina telling E!Online that she reached out to Damian in March 2020. “After everything went down, I reached out to him [Damian] because I just wanted to see where we stand,” she said at the time.

The pair continued their on-again, off-again relationship until the Love Is Blind reunion, which aired in July 2021. In a weird reality TV-crossover, Damian brough Too Hot To Handle’s Francesca Fargo to the cast’s reunion. It was later revealed that Giannina and Damian had split for good.

These days, Giannina is dating The Bachelorette and Bachelor in Paradise alum, Blake Horstmann. Giannina revealed their relationship status in June 2022 when she posted a series of photos of the couple to Instagram. “My worst kept secret,” she captioned the post.

Meanwhile, Damian was rumoured to be dating his The Perfect Match co-star, Kariselle Snow.

Kelly Chase and Kenny Barnes

It was clear that Kelly and Kenny wouldn’t last when, on the morning of their wedding, Kelly said: “I don’t know if I’m 100 per cent in love with [Kenny]… that love that I had for my ex-boyfriend, I don’t have that crazy infatuation for that man.” Ouch.

Needless to say, the pair didn’t get married on the show and haven’t reconnected since.

Kelly is an entrepreneur and podcast host and has caught up with some of her other cast members a few times. Meanwhile, Kenny married his girlfriend Alexandra Garrison in April 2022.

Jessica Batten and Mark Cuevas

Jessica and Mark faced a series of trials and tribulations during their short-lived romance, with Jessica still crushing on fellow contestant Matt and harbouring concerns about their 10-year age gap.

Ultimately, Mark was on board with the romance and said “I do” at the altar, to which Jessica replied: “I cannot.”

Both Jessica and Mark have since moved on, with Jessica marrying boyfirend Benjamin McGarth in September 2022. Batten and the California-based doctor eloped nearly one year after getting engaged.

Mark, on the other hand, married his longtime fiancée, Aubrey Rainey, in November 2022. The couple also share two children together, Ace and Axton.

Amber Pike and Matt Barnett

After some initial drama, if there was one couple determined to say “I do” at the end of the first season, it was Amber and Matt.

Amber said at the time: “Considering where I was in life before I came into this experience, I would never have guessed I’d be in a wedding gown right now, with a ring on my finger, and whole new last name. I wouldn’t have believed it!”

Three years on since the show aired, the couple regularly post pictures of each other on Instagram.