Ergonomic desk chairs FAQs

What does it mean if a chair is ergonomic?

Working from home has meant that people have ended up working in less desirable conditions. Ergonomic chairs aim to create more desired conditions and are designed with the human body in mind, considering posture, support, comfort and health.

How do I know if a chair is ergonomic?

There is quite a specific set of requirements that make a chair ergonomic. The common ones are present in most office chairs – such as a swivel base, seat height adjustment, five-spoke wheelbase and arm support adjustment. But there are a few more to look out for that mean a chair is truly ergonomic...

A back tilt tension adjustment that lets you rock back in your chair, lumbar support, and back angle adjustment that allows you to fine-tune the back into the most comfortable position for you. You should also look for backrest adjustment, which allows you to arrange the contours of the back cushion for optimal support and more.

What is the best chair for office work?

There are some really innovative and oh-so-comfortable ergonomic chairs on the market but finding your perfect chair is a bit of a Goldilocks situation. You should narrow down a few factors, such as your budget, how much swivel room you have under your desk and whether you need a headrest. But, ultimately, the whole idea of an ergonomic chair is that you can alter the settings so it perfectly fits and supports your own body.

How much do ergonomic chairs cost?

Especially if you are working from home, it is a worthwhile investment to purchase a good ergonomic office chair. A decent one can range anywhere from £200 all the way to £2,000.

Do I need adjustable armrests?

Let’s start by saying there’s pros and cons to having armrests: if you use them properly they can support your limbs and relieve your back when seated. But they can also encourage shoulder shrugging if set too high and can have the effect of a leaning posture if one of them is set slightly higher than the other.

Your elbows should be in line with the desk, so for those of us where that’s not the case, adjustable armrests can come in handy in helping you find the correct setup. To really make your working from home space a place of comfort, make sure your armrests are positioned correctly. It’s the last thing you should be adjusting and, ideally, they should sit just below your elbow when your hands are resting in your lap (a lot lower than most would think).

For the best and most comfy setup, you would switch between using the armrest to, well, rest your arms on and going without during your day.

Setting up your office chair to avoid back pain

First off, it’s pretty crucial the height of the chair harmonises with the rest of your setup. In terms of the tilt on the back of the chair, it’s best to be relatively upright when you can be, but feel free to recline the backrest every now and again. As a rule of thumb, you should be as close to your desk as possible, so, if you can, push the seat forward so the armrests fit underneath your desk.

Then, if it isn’t already, ensure your computer screen is on a level with your eye-line. Preferably, you should be looking 2-3in below the casing on the top of the screen – you don’t want to be tilting your head up or down for long periods.

Finally, remember to get up and move around a least once every half hour. Long periods of sitting are a stressor for the muscles and discs in your back, so it’s good to switch up your posture every now and again. By leaving the desk, you’re less likely to forget about maintaining your posture throughout the day – anything to avoid the dreaded slouch.

The verdict: Ergonomic desk chairs

The best office chairs will promote productivity and help you feel energised, and that’s exactly what the Boulies EP200 did throughout our working day. While there are more ergonomic chairs in our edit, we felt, for its price point, the EP200 will accommodate a wide range of heights and provide solid ergonomic support that will help keep bad backs fit and rid of aches, pains and stiffness.

However, if you have some extra budget available, the Humanscale path and the Herman Miller mirra 2 butterfly really offer tangible ergonomics that get to work as soon as you sit down. The path has the ability to support you in a number of different positions, while gradually coaxing you back to the optimum position. Meanwhile, the mirra 2 boasts fantastic spine support and pelvic reinforcement, so we didn’t naturally start slouching as the working day wore on.

Want more recommendations? Read our round-up of the best laptop stands