I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our privacy notice

Horse racing tips today: 13:47 Lingfield – Riot – 1pt @ 7/1 with William Hill

14:17 Lingfield – Molly Valentine – 1pt @ 16/1 with Bet365 For today's horse racing tips, our analyst James Boyle looks at the flat racing meeting at Lingfield with two selections now online. As always, you’ll find up-to-date odds at the , but our tipster’s predictions are researched early in the day and those prices could soon be moved in by the betting public. Odds stated are correct at the time of publishing, but check out for all the latest movements.

Established 2022 Bet £10 Get £30 Free Bet VISIT SITE 18+ New customers only. Opt in & bet £10 on any sports at 2.00+ odds within 7 days. No Cash out. Get 3x £10 Free Bets on selected markets. Free bets expire in 7 days. Card payments & Apple Pay only. T&Cs apply. BeGambleAware.org | Please gamble responsibly.

13:47 Lingfield – Riot – 1pt @ 7/1 Riot has spent most of his career running at 7f but I think he’s worth another go over a mile. He was tried at this trip at Chelmsford a couple of starts ago but didn’t get anything like a clear run at things, his path through being blocked for much of the home straight. His sole run since yielded a third placed finish at Newcastle, one in which he was running on nicely to the line, and from a figures point of view it was as good a performance as he had posted in a long time. Rossa Ryan is booked and this sharp mile could be the one for him. 14:17 Lingfield – Molly Valentine – 1pt @ 16/1 Rab Havlin and Dean Ivory teamed up to great effect last year, 38 runners yielding 10 winners. One of those successes came when Molly Valentine bolted up in a Nottingham handicap in April, justifying strong market support, and this will be the second time that Havlin has been on board. I’m hoping that means she’s fancied to improve on her C&D run a couple of weeks ago and she’s entitled to given that it was her first start for 203 days. It didn’t pan out to suit from a tactical point of view and hopefully there’ll be a better gallop on this time. Regardless, 16/1 seems fair.

Established 2022 50% Back as a Welcome Bonus up to £25 on First Day Losses VISIT SITE #ad. 18+. Gamble Responsibly. Begambleaware.org. New Customers only. Must have a minimum of 3 bets of £10 or more on separate events at odds of evens (2.0) or bigger on first day. First day losses equals all settled stakes less all returns. T&C's apply.