For free real time breaking news alerts sent straight to your inbox sign up to our breaking news emails Sign up to our free breaking news emails Please enter a valid email address Please enter a valid email address SIGN UP I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our privacy notice Thanks for signing up to the

Breaking News email {{ #verifyErrors }} {{ message }} {{ /verifyErrors }} {{ ^verifyErrors }} Something went wrong. Please try again later {{ /verifyErrors }}

Nintendo has launched a brand-new Switch OLED model, to coincide with the upcoming release of Splatoon 3. It looks almost as colourful as the game it’s based on, and it’s available to purchase now.

The console features all the same specs as the original OLED with a bright 7in display and it’s also adorned with splashy, squid-based imagery from the game. It includes a set of one blue and one yellow gradient Joy-Con controllers with white undersides, and a white, graffiti-themed Nintendo Switch dock as well.

In Splatoon 3, players will compete in teams in a family-friendly third-person shooter with a number of different game modes, including “Turf War”, which sees players compete in a four-vs-four arena match to cover the most ground with their coloured ink. In our hands-on preview, we praised its “broad appeal and high skill ceiling” that “encourages mobility and varying loadout composition”.

As well as a console, Nintendo has also launched a Switch carry case, and a pro controller is also planned to be released on the game’s release day, which is expected on 9 September.

If you want to find out how to get your hands on Nintendo’s latest Switch console and other accessories, keep reading the rest of the article below.

Nintendo Switch OLED model ‘Splatoon 3’ edition: £319.99, Amazon.co.uk

(Nintendo)

Dimensions: 4in x 9.5in x 0.55in

4in x 9.5in x 0.55in Weight: 0.32kg without joy-cons, 0.42kg with joy-cons attached

0.32kg without joy-cons, 0.42kg with joy-cons attached Display: 7in multi-touch capacitive OLED touch screen (1280x720)

7in multi-touch capacitive OLED touch screen (1280x720) CPU/GPU: NVIDIA custom tegra processor

NVIDIA custom tegra processor Storage: 64GB, micro SD

64GB, micro SD Video output: Up to 1080p in TV mode; up to 720p in handheld and tabletop mode

Up to 1080p in TV mode; up to 720p in handheld and tabletop mode Battery life: 4.5 to 9 hours

4.5 to 9 hours Charging time: 3 hours

The Splatoon 3 edition console features design inspiration from the upcoming game for Nintendo Switch, complete with colourful images “straight out of Splatsville” according to Nintendo’s website. It includes a set of one blue and one yellow gradient Joy-Con controllers with white undersides, and a white, graffiti-themed Nintendo Switch dock. There is also a limited edition console available from Base (£329.85, Base.com) and Studio (£329.99, Studio.com) but both are listed at £10 more than the recommended retail price. While this is based on iconography from the game, Splatoon 3 for the Nintendo Switch will be sold separately.

Buy now from Amazon

Buy now from AO

Buy now from Argos

Buy now from Smyths Toys

Nintendo Switch pro controller ‘Splatoon 3’ edition: £64.99, Very.co.uk – available 9 September 2022

(Nintendo)

The Splatoon 3 pro controller appears to be the same model as the original first-party offering from Nintendo with an aesthetically similar livery to the Splatoon 3 Joy-Con controllers, with matching colourways and stencil illustrations embossed on the face of the device. The standard edition pro controller currently comes in at £49.99 over at Amazon (Amazon.co.uk) so this one comes in a little higher.

Buy now

Nintendo Switch carrying case ‘Splatoon 3’ edition with screen protector: £19.99, Very.co.uk – available 9 September 2022

(Nintendo)

A good carry case is an essential if you’re planning on taking your Switch on the go (as it’s designed to do) and this Splatoon 3-branded offering also comes with a screen protector as well. A non-branded carry case from Nintendo is currently priced at £19.99 (Argos.co.uk) so this fetching case comes at the same price.

Buy now

Voucher codes

If you’re looking for discounts on technology or videogames, then try one of these codes:

Want to get the best pre-order deal for the game? Read our full buying guide for Splatoon 3