I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our privacy notice

Get the Independent's betting newsletter for the latest tips and offers

Established 1946 Premier League Welcome Offer: Bet £10 on Football, Get £40 in Free Bets VISIT SITE 18+ New customers only. Opt in, bet £10 on any football market at minimum 1/1 odds. No cash out. Get £40 in Free Bets on selected events. Free Bets expire in 7 days. Debit card / Apple Pay payments only. T&Cs apply, see below. begambleaware.org | Please gamble responsibly

There is no active BetVictor bonus code in February, but you can still claim one of various current BetVictor sign up offers. Whether you prefer free bets or casino bonuses, simply opt-in to one of the following offers after registering, with no BetVictor promo code required. Crucially, only deposits made with either a Debit Card or Apple Pay will be eligible for any of these BetVictor offers: Offer 1: £40 of Free Football Bets at BetVictor Sign up to BetVictor via the link below to get £40 of free football bets, with no bonus code required: £10 Free Bet on any football market

£10 Acca Free Bet

£10 Bet Builder Free Bet

£10 In-Play Free Bet To unlock these free football bets you first need to opt-in to this promotion via the OFFERS tab after registering. Then place a qualifying first bet of £10 or more on any football market at odds of Evens (2.00) or greater. Your BetVictor free bets can be used on the football markets detailed above, but must also be placed at odds of Evens (2.00) or greater.

Established 1946 Premier League Welcome Offer: Bet £10 on Football, Get £40 in Free Bets VISIT SITE 18+ New customers only. Opt in, bet £10 on any football market at minimum 1/1 odds. No cash out. Get £40 in Free Bets on selected events. Free Bets expire in 7 days. Debit card / Apple Pay payments only. T&Cs apply, see below. begambleaware.org | Please gamble responsibly

Offer 2: £50 of Free Horse Racing Bets at BetVictor Alternatively, you can choose to get £50 of free horse racing bets: £10 Free Bet on any horse racing market

£20 Free Bet on any Lengthen The Odds market

£20 Free Bet on any Daily Racing Specials market To get these horse racing free bets, opt-in to this promotion via the OFFERS tab after registering. Then place a qualifying first bet of £10 or more on any horse racing market at odds of Evens (2.00) or greater. Once again, no bonus code is required for this BetVictor sign up offer.

Established 1946 Horse Racing Welcome Offer - Bet £10 Get £50 VISIT SITE #ad. 18+. Gamble Responsibly. Begambleaware.org. Opt in, bet £10 on Horse Racing, 1/1+ odds in 7 days, no cash out. Get £50 in Free Bets on set markets and valid 7 days. Click for T&Cs.

Please note that for both of the above BetVictor offers, the are not included in any returns. If you would prefer a BetVictor Casino sign up offer, you have various options with no bonus code required - again simply opt-in after registering. Offer 3: £30 Free + 100 Free Spins at BetVictor Casino The primary casino welcome offer is a package of bonuses and free spins: £10 Slots Bonus

£10 Live Casino Bonus

£10 Live Casino Game Show Bonus

100 Free Spins on Fishin’ Frenzy (10p a spin) The slots bonus can be used on most available slot games, while the Live Casino bonus is available on any exclusive BetVictor games. Meanwhile, the Live Casino Game Show bonus is available to use on games such as Monopoly Live, Deal or No Deal, Crazy Time and Mega Ball. Wagering requirements apply: 35x for the slot bonus and 40x for the live casino bonuses, but there are no wagering requirements for winnings from the BetVictor free spins.

Established 1946 Wager £10 Get £50 in Bonuses on Slots VISIT SITE #ad. 18+ New customers only. Opt in, wager £10 on selected games within 7 days of registration. Get 5 x £10 bonus for selected games, 40x wagering. Bonuses expire in 30 days. Max withdrawal £1,250. Debit Card/Apple Pay payments only. Click for T&Cs. see below. begambleaware.org | Please gamble responsibly

Other Casino Welcome Offers at BetVictor There are currently two alternative casino sign up bonuses, neither of which require a BetVictor bonus code: £50 of Slots Bonuses (£10 on five selected slot games)

300 Free Spins (100 free spins for every £10 deposited & wagered) Remember, each customer is only eligible to receive one BetVictor sign up offer for sports betting or , so choose the one most suited to you and carefully review the terms & conditions before you opt-in after registration.

Why should you join BetVictor? BetVictor, founded by Victor Chandler, ranks among the UK's top , supported by notable brand ambassadors including Rachael Blackmore and Harry Redknapp. The brand's central message emphasises simplicity, providing users with a hassle-free, streamlined betting experience by "removing the clutter." This commitment is evident in their user-friendly website, distinguished by its clean and intuitive design, tailored features and customised offers. Other sign-up offers from recommended online betting sites:











Established 1946 Premier League Welcome Offer: Bet £10 on Football, Get £40 in Free Bets VISIT SITE 18+ New customers only. Opt in, bet £10 on any football market at minimum 1/1 odds. No cash out. Get £40 in Free Bets on selected events. Free Bets expire in 7 days. Debit card / Apple Pay payments only. T&Cs apply, see below. begambleaware.org | Please gamble responsibly