I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our privacy notice

Get the Independent's betting newsletter for the latest tips and offers

Manchester City’s odds to win a second treble in a row have drifted for the second week in a row to 16/1 with . The Cityzens completed a famous treble in the 2022/23 campaign beginning by storming their way to the Premier League title for the third season in a row, overhauling Arsenal with a surge in the second half of the term. Pep Guardiola’s men then defeated bitter rivals Manchester United 2-1 to lift the FA Cup for only the second time during the Spaniard’s reign.

Established 2001 Bet £10, Get £30 in Free Bets

Bonus Code: INDY2023

VISIT SITE #ad. 18+. Gamble Responsibly. Begambleaware.org. New Customers only. Bet £10* & Get £30* in Free Bets. Sign up, deposit between £5* and £10* to your account and bet365 will give you three times that value in Free Bets when you place qualifying bets to the same value and they are settled. Free Bets are paid as Bet Credits. Min odds/bet and payment method exclusions apply. Returns exclude Bet Credits stake. Registration Required. T&Cs, time limits & exclusions apply. - Full Terms Apply

All eyes were then on the Champions League final against Inter. The Cityzens had come up short in their six previous attempts to win the European crown since Guardiola’s arrival, but Rodri’s second-half strike clinched the title for the first time. were confident that City could reach those heights again, offering a 18/1 price to match their exploits at the start of the season.

Hopes of surpassing their achievement from last season by winning the quadruple ended in defeat to Newcastle in the third round of the EFL Cup. They’ve gone through peaks and troughs over the course of the campaign. But City have hit their stride since the end of December, including claiming their first Club World Cup crown. The return of Kevin De Bruyne and Erling Haaland to fitness as well as Liverpool's 3-1 defeat to Arsenal helped to narrow their odds to 9/1. But, that price has drifted out to 16/1 with after Guardiola's men were held to a 1-1 draw by Chelsea last weekend.

City are seemingly timing their run to perfection in the Premier League, while their Champions League record and strength in depth to take on the FA Cup gives them a 5.9 per cent chance to win the treble according to the bookies. However, City saw their winning run of 11 matches in all competitions halted by Chelsea last time out. Raheem Sterling scored against his former club to put the Blues ahead, and although Rodri salvaged a point seven minutes from time, Guardiola's men dropped two valuable points. They're now four points behind Liverpool at the summit following the Reds' 4-1 triumph over Brentford, while the return of Mohamed Salah from injury will further boost Jurgen Klopp's hopes of winning the title in his final season at Anfield. Arsenal are also in the race and put forward another clinic in front of goal, hammering Burnley 5-0 at Turf Moor to move into second. City are still favourites with to win the title for the fourth season in a row, although their price has narrowed from 4/6 into evens. Liverpool are now 2/1 to claim the crown, while Arsenal have odds of 4/1. City still have to travel to Anfield on March 9, in a game that could decide the top-flight crown, while they also host the Gunners on March 31.

Established 2008 Bet £10, Get £30 in Free Bets VISIT SITE #ad. 18+. Gamble Responsibly. Begambleaware.org. Play Safe. From 00:01 on 17.10.2022. 3x £10 free bets. Free bets expire after 30 days. New customers signing up through mobile or tablet device only. Minimum £10 stake on odds of 1/2 (1.5) or greater on sportsbook (excluding Virtual markets). Further terms apply. #ad

Their Champions League campaign could not have gone better so far. They won all six of their group games, although the matches were not without difficulties. City made a strong start to their last 16 tie with Copenhagen. Guardiola's men recorded a 3-1 victory on the road courtesy of strikes from De Bruyne, Bernardo Silva and Phil Foden. They are odds-on to win the second leg and the club are 7/4 favourites with to march towards a second Champions League title.

Guardiola’s side are also favoured with to win the FA Cup at 15/8. After crushing Huddersfield Town and then edging past Tottenham in round four, Luton Town are next on the agenda at Kenilworth Road. The Hatters gave City a tough time in their Premier League meeting as Bernardo Silva and Jack Grealish scored to lead a second-half comeback and secure a 2-1 win. So, it may not be a straightforward tie. There are several strong teams remaining in the competition, and given City’s exploits elsewhere, winning the FA Cup again could arguably be their toughest assignment.

Manchester City to win the treble odds City’s quest for the treble looked to be in peril after drawing 2-2 with Crystal Palace at home. At the time, Guardiola’s men were three points off the pace of Liverpool at the top, who had a game in hand over their rivals. Although they've had a setback against Chelsea, halting their 11-match winning run in all competitions, Guardiola's men are still in a strong position in the Premier League, holding a game in hand over their rivals. Liverpool and Arsenal can't be too comfortable with the lurking presence of the champions behind them. With De Bruyne and Haaland back to full fitness, few would bet against City completing yet another treble by winning the Premier League, FA Cup and Champions League.