The Independent guide to the best horse betting sites in February 2024

The Independent’s journalism is supported by our readers. If you click links to other sites on this page, we will earn commission. Learn More

Last Updated: 16th of February 2024 Michael Butlin · Betting Writer

Discover the best horse racing betting sites in the UK and the latest horse racing sign up offers and promotions:

To make The Independent's list of the best horse betting sites, an must stand out from the crowd. But before we look in-depth at any horse racing betting sites, there are a few core things that we check for: The best horse racing bookmakers consistently offer enticing promotions and specials to customers for the big meetings and festivals like Cheltenham, the Grand National, Royal Ascot or the Epsom Derby.

to customers for the big meetings and festivals like Cheltenham, the Grand National, Royal Ascot or the Epsom Derby. The odds offered by the best horse racing bookies must provide value to punters. If a horse betting site is consistently beaten on prices, it won't make our 2024 horse racing betting sites list.

to punters. If a horse betting site is consistently beaten on prices, it won't make our 2024 horse racing betting sites list. A prerequisite for any horse racing site that undergoes our testing and review is possession of a UK Gambling Commission (UKGC) licence. This seal of approval confirms that a racing bookmaker is regulated and can operate legally in the United Kingdom. Best Horse Racing Betting Sites February 2024 Rank Best Horse Racing Betting Sites uk Bonus #1 bet365 Bet £10, Get £30 in Free Bets #2 Unibet £40 Bonus Bet if Your First Bet Loses #3 Betway Get £10 in Free Bets #4 BetGoodwin 50% Back up to £25 on First Day Losses #5 Boylesports Bet £10, Get £20 in Free Bets Expand Collapse

Our picks for the Best Horse Racing Betting Sites in February 2024 To assist you further in making an informed choice of where to bet on horse racing online, we have handpicked a selection of trusted horse racing betting sites in the UK that offer a first-class service: 1. bet365 We consistently found offering the best price on horses and their 'Best Odds Guaranteed' feature ensures that if you place a bet after 8am and the Starting Price (SP) is bigger, you'll get paid out at those better odds. Additionally, new and eligible customers enjoy daily horse racing boosts and a 'Price Promise' means that their odds on all UK and Irish races shown live on ITV are never beaten (from 10am until 15 minutes prior to the race). bet365 also have a 'Each Way Extra' promotion, this allows you to choose place terms for Each Way Horse Racing bets on selected Horse Races. The Racing Value offering Pay outs on disqualified horses and now includes bets placed Ante-Post. There is also live streaming of most races, allowing you to watch them live or to bet in-running as races unfold, while we particularly like their 'Each Way Extra' functionality, which allows you to choose your own place terms. Bet365 are also our No.1 ranked thanks to their extensive offering, range of bet boosts, bet builder and other offers. For punters who like to bet on to go, bet365 has one of the best for horse racing.

Established 2001 Bet £10, Get £30 in Free Bets

Bonus Code: INDY2023

VISIT SITE #ad. 18+. Gamble Responsibly. Begambleaware.org. New Customers only. Bet £10* & Get £30* in Free Bets. Sign up, deposit between £5* and £10* to your account and bet365 will give you three times that value in Free Bets when you place qualifying bets to the same value and they are settled. Free Bets are paid as Bet Credits. Min odds/bet and payment method exclusions apply. Returns exclude Bet Credits stake. Registration Required. T&Cs, time limits & exclusions apply. - Full Terms Apply

2. Unibet While might be one of several relatively new horse racing betting sites in the UK, they have already achieved recognition as the 'Horse Race Betting Operator of the Year' at industry awards in both 2021 and 2022. They also provide live streaming of UK and Irish races, plus various racing promotions, including three 'Uniboosts' a day on any horse you choose and a daily horse racing 'Acca Boost'. For punters who prioritise , Unibet offers this feature daily from 8 am on selected UK and Ireland horse racing bets. Sponsors of the Unibet Champion Hurdle at the Cheltenham Festival, as well as Kempton All Weather meetings, they have enlisted top trainers Nicky Henderson and Richard Hannon as ambassadors, providing exclusive insight. Henderson will be very much in the headlines at Cheltenham in 2024, and Unibet will have many special offers and available throughout the four days of top racing action. One of the most generous betting sites when it comes to Festival offers, both new and existing customers will have plenty to avail of from the .

3. Betway Betway is another horse racing betting brand that sponsors a feature race at the Cheltenham Festival - the Betway Champion Chase - and they have trainer Ross O'Sullivan and former jump jockey Katie Walsh as ambassadors. An official betting partner of The Jockey Club, Betway also offer 'Best Odds Guaranteed' on horse racing bets, while their live streaming coverage extends to races in France, Australia and the US. Additionally, there are 'Betway Boosts' for enhanced odds, a 'Free Bet Club' that rewards you with two weekly £5 if you place £25 in qualifying multiples and a daily 'Extra Place Special' on a selected race.

Established 2006 Get £10 in Free Bets VISIT SITE #ad. 18+. Gamble Responsibly. Begambleaware.org. *New customers only. This offer is valid for 7 days from your new account being registered. Min Deposit: £10. Free Bet awarded: £10. 1 x £10 must be wagered at odds of 1.75+ to unlock Free Bet. Debit Card deposits only (exclusions apply). Free bet will expire 7 days after the 1st deposit. 18+. BeGambleAware.org. Bet The Responsible Way. Full Terms apply

4. BetGoodwin BetGoodwin is a new horse racing betting site from an established operator: Goodwin Racing is a longstanding telephone betting service and what sets them apart are their horse racing money back specials. For example, if your horse is beaten by a nose (half a length in a chase), falls at the last when in front, or finishes second to a 50/1+ winner, BetGoodwin will refund your stake as a free bet of up to £100. As with many , they feature a line up of racing ambassadors, including trainers Alan King and Chris Gordon, jockeys Hayley Turner and Tom Cannon, plus racing broadcaster Mike Cattermole.

Established 2022 50% Back as a Welcome Bonus up to £25 on First Day Losses VISIT SITE #ad. 18+. Gamble Responsibly. Begambleaware.org. New Customers only. Must have a minimum of 3 bets of £10 or more on separate events at odds of evens (2.0) or bigger on first day. First day losses equals all settled stakes less all returns. T&C's apply.

5. BoyleSports is another to make our list of the best horse racing betting sites thanks to their unique promos, such as money back as a free bet of up to £20, if your horse finishes second to the SP favourite at a selected daily meeting. As Cheltenham approaches, Boylesports offers a promotion for £40 in . Stake £25 during the qualifying period and get a £10 free bet in week 1, plus £5 for each subsequent qualifying week. Sponsors of the Boylesports Irish Grand National, they have former Cheltenham Gold Cup and Grand National winning jockey Robbie Power and leading trainer Gordon Elliott as horse racing ambassadors.

Established 2007 Bet £10, Get £20 in Free Bets VISIT SITE #ad. 18+. Gamble Responsibly. Begambleaware.org. New UK customers (Excluding NI) only. Mobile exclusive. Min Deposit £10. Min stake £10. Min odds Evs. Free bet applied on 1st settlement of any qualifying bet. 30 days to qualify. Free bets expire in 7 days. Cashed out/Free Bets won’t apply. Account & Payment method restrictions apply. 1 Free Bet offer per customer, household & IP Address only. 18+. T&Cs apply. T&Cs apply

6. BetVictor BetVictor offers a comprehensive selection of horse racing markets from around the world, covering major events as well as smaller races, providing punters with plenty of options to choose from. The site typically offers competitive odds on horse racing events, which means their customers have the opportunity to secure favourable payouts if their wager is successful. BetVictor often provides live streaming of horse races, allowing users to watch the action unfold in real-time directly on the platform. BetVictor are also known for their many and special offers for the big events on the horse racing calendar. The Cheltenham Festival is one such event that the bookmaker likes to offer it's new and existing customers a host of specials for and in 2024 the are as generous as ever.

Established 1946 Premier League Welcome Offer: Bet £10 on Football, Get £40 in Free Bets VISIT SITE 18+ New customers only. Opt in, bet £10 on any football market at minimum 1/1 odds. No cash out. Get £40 in Free Bets on selected events. Free Bets expire in 7 days. Debit card / Apple Pay payments only. T&Cs apply, see below. begambleaware.org | Please gamble responsibly

How to Choose Between Horse Race Betting Sites: Key Questions to Ask Getting to grips with online horse racing betting can be tricky for newcomers. In this segment, we'll highlight the key factors to bear in mind when selecting from the best horse racing bookmakers: How attractive is the welcome offer? An enticing welcome offer can extend your horse racing betting budget. However, it's important that this offer is free from overly restrictive terms. Do they offer live streaming? Numerous horse racing betting sites now provide the option of live streaming for all UK and Irish races and sometimes of races from farther afield. Typically, you'll need to have placed a bet on the race or have a funded account to access live streaming. What payment methods can be used? The array of available payment options directly affects your ability to make fast deposits and withdrawals according to your preferences. The best horse racing betting sites UK should accept a variety of debit cards, e-wallets and mobile wallet services such as Apple Pay and Google Pay. Are there regular horse racing promotions? Regular promotions go beyond the initial welcome offer, showcasing a bookmaker's commitment to rewarding loyal customers. Top horse betting sites feature daily promotions, free cash prize prediction games and loyalty free bets for regular bettors. These aspects are pivotal when evaluating and comparing horse racing bookmakers. Are there special offers for the big races and festivals? Bookies should ramp things up for the big days in the racing calendar. The likes of the Cheltenham Festival, Royal Ascot and the Grand National should be accompanied by an array of special offers such as extra each-way places, free bets and odds boosts. Moreover, ante-post betting markets should be available for major races all year round. What betting limits and responsible gambling tools are available? Betting on horse racing should always be fun and racing sites should enable you to set daily, weekly and monthly betting or deposit limits on your accounts, This enables you to budget and bet responsibly at all times. Are there horse race form guides and tips? When betting on a horse race it's crucial to be able to see a list of all the runners and riders, with colours, recent form, weights, plus jockey and trainer details. Furthermore, the inclusion of a form guide and insights from expert tipsters can significantly enhance your racing betting experience.

Established 2005 50% Back as a Free Bet up to £50 on First Day Losses Plus 10 Extra Spins VISIT SITE #ad. 18+. Gamble Responsibly. Begambleaware.org. Minimum deposit £10. Qualifying bet must be placed at odds of evens (2.0) or greater. Get 50% back on first day losses as a free bet up to £50 plus 10 extra spins on Reel King, credited within 24 hours. Free Bet and Spins expire in 7 days. T&Cs apply. Please bet responsibly.

Horse Racing Betting Offers to look out for We've highlighted the horse race betting sites with the in the UK. If you're unsure about the details of each offer, here's a quick breakdown: Free Horse Racing Bets: Free bets can allow you to back a horse without using your own money. Look out for free horse racing bets as part of welcome bonuses, promos for big races or loyalty rewards.

Free bets can allow you to back a horse without using your own money. Look out for free horse racing bets as part of welcome bonuses, promos for big races or loyalty rewards. Best Odds Guaranteed: With best odds guaranteed, if you take an early price on a horse and the starting price (SP) turns out to be higher, you will be paid out at the higher odds if your bet wins.

With best odds guaranteed, if you take an early price on a horse and the starting price (SP) turns out to be higher, you will be paid out at the higher odds if your bet wins. Price Boosts: The best horse betting sites have enhanced odds for numerous runners across different races each day. Some sites will also offer their customers a certain number of boosts per day or week to use on whichever horses they like.

The best horse betting sites have enhanced odds for numerous runners across different races each day. Some sites will also offer their customers a certain number of boosts per day or week to use on whichever horses they like. Money-Back Specials: Money-back specials are promotions where bookmakers refund your stake, often as a free bet, if a specific event occurs during a race. For example, you might get money back if your horse finishes second to the favourite, or if it falls at the final fence.

Money-back specials are promotions where bookmakers refund your stake, often as a free bet, if a specific event occurs during a race. For example, you might get money back if your horse finishes second to the favourite, or if it falls at the final fence. Extra Places: Bookmakers may increase the number of each-way places paid, especially for high-profile races. For a race with a large field like the Grand National, the best horse racing betting sites sometimes pay as much as seven or eight each-way places.

Bookmakers may increase the number of each-way places paid, especially for high-profile races. For a race with a large field like the Grand National, the best horse racing betting sites sometimes pay as much as seven or eight each-way places. Non-Runner, No Bet (NRNB): With NRNB you won't lose your stake if your chosen horse doesn't run. This concession often applies to significant events like the Cheltenham Festival, typically available from around January onwards.

With NRNB you won't lose your stake if your chosen horse doesn't run. This concession often applies to significant events like the Cheltenham Festival, typically available from around January onwards. Acca Insurance: Insurance on horse racing accumulator bets is sometimes available if just one leg of your accumulator lets you down, usually with your stake refunded as a free bet.

Established 2012 10% Cashback Always VISIT SITE #ad. 18+. Gamble Responsibly. Begambleaware.org. T&C Apply. Play Responsibly. Full Terms Apply. - Full Terms Apply

Best Odds Guaranteed Times for Horse Betting Sites (BOG) provides a safety net against odds fluctuations and can add value to bets, making it a popular feature for punters. That's why many major UK horse racing bookies offer it, with having one of the best BOG packages for horse racing betting. UK Bookmaker Time 8 am 9 am 8 am 9 am 8 am

Best Bookies for Horse Racing Accumulators: BoyleSports BoyleSports is one of the best horse racing . They provide daily 'Extra Place Races' and an 'Acca Loyalty' program where you'll earn a £5 free accumulator bet for every five £5 accumulator bets you place (with minimum odds of 3/1).

Established 2007 Bet £10, Get £20 in Free Bets VISIT SITE #ad. 18+. Gamble Responsibly. Begambleaware.org. New UK customers (Excluding NI) only. Mobile exclusive. Min Deposit £10. Min stake £10. Min odds Evs. Free bet applied on 1st settlement of any qualifying bet. 30 days to qualify. Free bets expire in 7 days. Cashed out/Free Bets won’t apply. Account & Payment method restrictions apply. 1 Free Bet offer per customer, household & IP Address only. 18+. T&Cs apply. T&Cs apply

The Best Horse Racing Betting Sites: In summary You should now have all the tools you need to choose your next horse racing betting site. Remember that all online recommended by The Independent have been reviewed by our horse racing betting team and are licensed, regulated and legal to bet with in the UK. Once you've made your choice, you may wish to track our daily from our esteemed experts. Keep an eye on for the latest runners and odds too.

Horse Racing Betting FAQs What is a welcome offer in horse race betting? A welcome offer is a bonus provided by horse racing betting sites to new customers. This can take various forms such as a matched deposit, free bet or cashback on losses. It provides an opportunity for bettors to start their horse racing betting journey with some bonus funds or insurance on losses. What are the best horse racing betting sites in the UK? The Independent rankings of the best horse racing betting sites change all the time, based on our review team's latest findings when testing out online bookmakers. This list is constantly updated and we review all new horse racing betting sites as soon as they are launched. What is an each-way bet in horse racing? An each-way bet in horse racing is essentially two bets in one: one bet for the horse to win and another for it to place (usually second, third, or fourth). This allows bettors to earn a return even if their horse doesn't win, but still places. How do horse racing betting sites protect my personal information? Reputable, licensed horse race betting sites employ advanced encryption technologies to protect your personal and financial information. They also adhere to strict privacy policies, ensuring your data is not shared with third parties. Sites without these safeguards in place don't qualify for a licence.

Michael boasts over two decades of experience in the gambling industry. During this time he has held various product development, commercial and marketing positions at innovative online bookmakers, including Blue Square and Unibet.