Sign up to our free weekly newsletter for insider tips and product reviews from our shopping experts Sign up for our free IndyBest email Please enter a valid email address Please enter a valid email address SIGN UP I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our privacy notice Thanks for signing up to the

IndyBest email {{ #verifyErrors }} {{ message }} {{ /verifyErrors }} {{ ^verifyErrors }} Something went wrong. Please try again later {{ /verifyErrors }}

We still have a couple of weeks to go before Amazon Prime Day officially gets started, but this year, the online retail giant has decided to kick things off a little early, and impressive deals are already popping up left, right and centre.

While Amazon usually launches early bird deals around 10 days prior to the main event, the online retailer began dropping initial deals three weeks in advance this year, and there are already savings to be had on your favourite bits of homeware, fashion, tech and appliances.

Of course, we expect plenty of gaming deals to land on Prime Day itself – including deals on the Nintendo Switch, Switch games and Switch accessories – but it seems like Amazon has begun cutting the price on Nintendo’s versatile games console already.

The price of the wildly popular Nintendo Switch neon red-blue console has just plummeted to £239.95. We’ve only ever seen it sell for a lower price once before in its lifetime, and that was during the January sales, when the price of the device cost £229.

The Nintendo Switch is always one of the most popular products in any Prime Day sales event, with the console frequently selling out in the blink of an eye. While there’s a decent chance the Nintendo Switch’s price could drop even further on Prime Day itself, this isn’t a guarantee, so if you’re really after a new games console, this is a very good Switch deal to snap up.

Read more:

Nintendo Switch: Was £299, now £239.95, Amazon.co.uk

(Amazon)

Launched in 2017, the Nintendo Switch is the original home console hybrid. Despite being superseded by the Nintendo Switch OLED in 2021, the OG console is still one of the most popular around, and is a highly capable machine for playing all the best Switch games.

You can take it on the go, play with it at home on your TV or pop it on the dining table in tabletop mode. “It features a really innovative detachable wireless joy-con system that allows you to use the pair of controllers as one or independently of each other for two-player games,” our writer said in the review of the device.

This specific model comes in red and blue, featuring a black Switch dock and the contrasting joy-con controllers. You get up to nine hours of battery life in handheld mode – enough for a lengthy plane or car journey this summer.

While Amazon says that the Switch has been reduced from £299, the true RRP is actually £259, so it’s really a £20 saving, rather than a £60 saving. Still, this is one of the best deals we’ve ever seen on the console, so it’s worth snapping up.

Buy now

Voucher codes

For the latest discounts on tech, gadgets and more, try the links below:

Read more on Amazon Prime Day 2022

Your ultimate guide to Amazon Prime Day 2022 – Expert insight on what to expect, how to get the best deals and start dates

The best home and kitchen Prime Day deals to expect – We’re predicting huge savings across big-name brands such as Shark, Dyson, Nespresso and Philips

Your ultimate guide to tech Prime Day offers – Our experts share insight into the gadgets to watch, from tablets to headphones

Amazon Prime Day Nintendo Switch offers to expect – Following the release of the latest Switch OLED late last year, we share our predictions for this year’s sales event

The top gaming discounts to know this Amazon Prime Day – Any gaming heads will want to bookmark this guide, where we detail the best deals based on this year’s releases and last year’s top sellers

Best Amazon device deals to watch out for this Prime Day – The tech giant offers huge discounts on its own-brand devices, and we’ve got all the latest insight

The Prime Day Apple deals to know – Whether you’re in the market for a MacBook or a shiny new iPad, read our guide for all the details

The fitness deals to expect this Prime Day– From New Balance trainers to Sweaty Betty gym leggings and NutriBullets, here’s everything you need to know

Best alcohol deals to shop this Amazon Prime Day – Whether you’re a vodka lover or whisky fanatic, we’re expecting some serious price cuts in the booze department

The top laptop discounts to know for Prime Day 2022 – We’re predicting some big savings on Dell, Lenovo, Surface and more

The best Amazon Prime Day TV deals to expect – The shopping bonanza is the perfect time to snap up a seriously discounted 4K or OLED telly