Matty Healy and his partner Gabbriette Bechtel joined some of his family, including his dad Tim Healy, in supporting his mum Denise Welch at her new play in Manchester this week

Matty Healy and his partner Gabriella Bechtel enjoyed an evening out with his family this week, having supported his mother Denise Welch over the launch of her latest project.

Denise, 65, is currently starring in the Gap at the Hope Mill Theatre in Manchester. Her son Matty, 34, and his partner, 26 - who's better known by her mononymous stage name Gabbriette - came to see the play together on Thursday.

Gabbriette - who fronts punk rock band Nasty Cherry - spent time with Matty's family at the show, including his younger brother Louis Healy, 22, and their father Tim Healy, 72. The latter's wife Joan Anderton, 62, was also present.

Image: denise_welch/Instagram) denise_welch/Instagram) Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

Gabbriette - who's been romantically linked to Matty since September last year - was spotted alongside some of her partner's family in a photo shared by Denise on Instagram. It showed them beside both Louis and Matty, seemingly backstage at the theatre. Denise wrote in the caption of the post: "Lovely to have the family in to see mum at work!!!"

In photos seen by the Mirror, Matty and Gabbriette, as well as his relatives, are seen outside the venue. He's spotted wearing a lengthy black coat over the top of some pin-striped trousers and a black t-shirt. His outfit included black footwear.

Wearing a co-ordinated outfit, his partner Gabbriette opted to attend the event in a black t-shirt and matching trousers, which she wore underneath a black coat. She decided to sport a pair of flat footwear for the special occasion.

According to reports by the Daily Mail, Matty "finally introduced new girlfriend" Gabbriette to his parents. The Gap, written by Jim Cartwright, opened at the Hope Mill Theatre last week and is scheduled to run until March 16. The play stars Denise in the role of Coral, with her appearing alongside Matthew Kelly, 73, as Walter.

Matthew previously worked alongside her ex-husband Tim on ITV's Benidorm, having first appeared in the fifth series, which aired in 2012. Denise had made a guest appearance on the sitcom herself the previous year in the fourth series.

A synopsis for the Gap teases: "He's back up north, she's still down south. They haven't seen each other for fifty years, not since their Soho days, back in the swinging '60s." It adds: "A chance phone call reunites them for one magical night and in next to no time, they're back to their old tricks. This timeless tale of love, loss and survival is set to enthral audiences in this limited run."

Denise previously said about being cast in the production in Manchester: "I am so excited to be returning to my first love, theatre, working alongside the fantastic team at Hope Mill Theatre next year. To play opposite Matthew Kelly in a new Jim Cartwright play is a dream come true. I hope you'll all come and see what I hope will be a great production."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.