Roman Kemp revealed on Monday that he would be stepping down from Capital Breakfast after eight and a half years with the radio station and seven years fronting the show

Roman Kemp announced his departure from Capital Breakfast.

On Monday morning, Roman revealed his exit from the radio show he has hosted for eight and a half years. The presenter explained he would not be leaving immediately, but his exit would be taking place in the coming weeks.

Roman thanked his co-stars Sian Welby and Chris Stark before asking his listeners to get in touch. He said: "The last like, eight and a half years of my life have just been so incredible being part of this machine. It's been the funniest, the saddest, the most outright wild time that I've had being a part of Capital and the Global family and when you set out to do a job of this magnitude, you never think that one day there will be a moment where you have to say goodbye. You don't think that that time will come."

Image: Handout) Handout) Image: PA) PA)

He continued: "What I can tell you is I’m not saying goodbye right now, I’m not leaving the show today and that’s it, but it’s not far away. It will come and that goodbye will come in five to six weeks. It’s not a decision that has come overnight either, it’s massive, I’ve not found it easy at all.

"Capital is my family, you as the wonderful listeners that you’ve been, you’ve been with me at my best times and my absolute lowest. […] Capital and Global have helped changed me. I was 22 years old when I first joined Capital and it’s built me into the man that I am today, it is all that I know. But I know that now is the right time to leave and now is the right time to move on.

"You listening, and the people in this room, every single person in this room, my producing team, Sian and Chris, Sonny who has done it in the past and Vick Hope who had done it in the past. It’s everyone.

"The next couple of weeks as I kind of approach the end of my time here on Capital, it’s going to be so tough. I love this place so much, I love it. I love the station, I love everything about it, Capital is my family. And I also love the connection that you and I, the listeners, have built together. It’s changed. I know that it started out as me being just Martin Kemp’s son, I hope that now you can call me your friend.”

Roman added: “I’ve loved every single moment of my time at Capital. The last 10 years have been amazing and hosting the legendary Capital Breakfast is the best job ever. But after almost seven years of early alarms, I’m looking forward to some lie-ins and it’s time to hand over the baton! It’s been a privilege and an honour to wake up millions of people every day. It’s the best job in radio and I’ll miss our listeners and the team at Global lots. Whoever the next host of Capital Breakfast is, they’re in for the most incredible ride.”

Roman joined Capital in 2014 before hosting the prestigious The Capital Evening Show in 2016. In 2017 he moved to Capital Breakfast and took the show nationwide in 2019.

Ashley Tabor-King CBE, Founder and Executive President of Global, said: “Roman, it’s been a pleasure. You’ve been a fantastic host and custodian of one of the biggest shows in UK radio, the Capital breakfast show. I’ve loved watching you grow and grow as a broadcaster and as a person and I wish you all the very best for whatever comes next.”

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok,Snapchat,Instagram,Twitter,Facebook,YouTubeandThreads.