A woman battling to remove her stubborn wallpaper while redecorating has shared her simple 85p hack her mum had shown her - as she claimed it stripped the wallpaper in 'minutes'

No one enjoys stripping wallpaper - but this 85p hack might make life a little easier.

The painstaking task is enough to make anyone vow to never want to redecorate again - as no matter how much scraping you do there always seems to be wallpaper left over. However it seems as if one cleaning fan has shared a simple hack that gets the job done in minutes.

The savvy mum shared her easy hack in the Mrs Hinch Made Me Do It Facebook group after spending gruelling hours in a battle to try and get the wallpaper off - until she tried a simple 85p trick.

Image: Facebook) Facebook) Image: Facebook) Facebook)

Becoming frustrated with the job, her woman picked up a bottle of W5 All Purpose Cleaner, which retails for 85p at Lidl, and spraying it on the walls. She left it to soak in for a matter of seconds before using the scraper again and watching the paper peel away easily.

It took just 10 minutes to get one wall done and she raved the technique had the whole bedroom finished in an hour. She wrote: "Had to share my mother's wallpaper stripping tip, for anyone that hates stripping wallpaper (everyone)."

Showing her previous attempts at trying to get it off, the wall was still decorated with a large amount of the floral patterned paper, as well as areas where the paper had come away but the brown backing paper remained. "And that's as much as I could do," she said and chimed: "Mum gave me a bottle of W5 All Purpose Cleaner. Into a spray bottle and spray it all over the wall. Look at that! Literally just peels off."

The video showed the paper coming off perfectly in one go and hundreds of people commented on the post to brand it a "game changer", as reported by The Sun.

One person simply replied: "This is magic!!!" While a second wrote: "Thanks so much for sharing! I'm going to do my living room this week so this has got me more motivated knowing it may not be so horrific. Just need to pop to Lidl," and a third added: "Wow great tip!"

Do you have a story to share? Email Niamh.Kirk@reachplc.com