Married At First Sight UK has been all about the heartache and drama this season. But which couples are still together and which parted ways?

Last year's series of Married At First Sight UK was one of the most dramatic ever - and it's not over yet.

On Monday 26 February, a special reunion show will air on E4, and if the trailer is anything to go by, it's going to be explosive viewing.

In the preview clip, Paul is seen getting a ring box out of his pocket and uttering the words: “Tasha, I want to commit my future to you for the rest of my life.”

Secrets of what the cast members have been up to since they last got together are also set to be revealed. Shona is now in a new relationship with a groom that wasn't hers to begin with after both their marriages failed. She teased: "A hell of a lot has happened since you last saw me."

Can't wait that long to find out what happened when the cameras stopped rolling? Here, we take a look at which stars couples are still together and who has broken up...

Still Together

Tasha and Paul

Image: E4) E4) Image: E4) E4)

The duo were the perfect match from the start. After opening up about her relationship fears during their honeymoon, Tasha and Paul's relationship took a turn for the better. The expert were big fans of the duo and complimented them and their progress during each commitment ceremony.

After their ceremony aired, Paul posted a gushing tribute to his fiery partner along with a photo of them on their 'wedding' day. He wrote: "Thank you to the beautiful bride @itstashajay for saying YES" Paul wrote. Tasha responded in the comment section: "Thanks for turning up".

When Tasha got into an argument with fellow bride Erica, Paul defended her and stood by her side. But, fast forward to Christmas and it seems Tasha and Erica's feud has been put to bed after they posed for a special festive shoot for OK! Magazine.

Speaking to the magazine, Tasha revealed that Paul was yet to meet her mum and dad. She said: "Paul still hasn’t met my parents but he’s met my sisters, my brother and their kids. The kids were the main ones for me — if the kids didn’t like him, that would have been an issue.

"No one’s got a bad word to say about Paul. He’ll meet my mum at Christmas but I don’t think he’ll meet my dad for a while. I was once talking to Paul on the phone at my dad’s house and Paul heard my dad coming into the room and just hung up the phone."

Paul added: "Tasha’s dad is an intimidating man — he makes me nervous! As for my family, my parents loved Tasha from the start. They prefer her to me now — I can’t win any arguments."

On Valentine's Day Tasha posted a photo of herself in red lingerie, prompting loved-up Paul to comment: "Hope Valentines never ends."

Erica and Jordan

Image: E4) E4)

Erica and Jordan showed up to the experiment later in the show. The duo got on extremely well from the moment they met at the altar. Erica even proudly gushed about her good connection with the other brides but it didn't go down well with a few, as Ella and Tasha soon accused her of having 'bad vibes' and trying to control things.

Jordan seemed to have Erica's back throughout their short time in the experiment, with him stepping in to defend her when Tasha called her a 'tramp' at a dinner party. During the vow renewals, the duo chose to stay together and explore the 'next chapter' in the real world. However, the dinner party reunion saw rumours spread about Jordan kissing another woman. An argument ensued when Erica pointed out he had his arm around the mystery woman.

The couple - who are still together - told OK! Magazine at Christmas that they had moved past the accusations that Jordan had been unfaithful but it had been hard. Erica said: "I couldn’t deal with that episode, it was so uncomfortable to watch. It was hard to see myself so upset — I was devastated. Sometimes I like to throw in some sly digs just to remind him, 'Don’t you ever try anything like that again,' but the fact that I can joke about it now shows I’m over it. One of the key things in making a relationship work is forgiveness. Jordan is amazing at reassuring me and making sure I’m OK."

They also shared plans of moving to Manchester and getting a dog named Tiga, in homage to Antigua where they had their MAFS honeymoon.

Shona and Matt

Image: Instagram) Instagram) Image: Instagram) Instagram)

Shona and Matt were pictured grabbing a coffee together in a Starbucks with Shona’s beloved dog Winston in tow after they met on the reunion episode of the show. Fans guessed they had been secretly dating after noticing activity on their social media pages. Matt was one of the first to like Shona’s Instagram posts, including a shot of her in her underwear.

They have now gone fully public with a string of loved-up posts and photos of themselves enjoying spa days. They even teamed up to promote a Valentine's Day smile makeover. In the clip, Shona confirmed that they had been together for eight months since meeting on the show - although they were technically "married" to other people.

Already Split

Peggy and Georges

Image: Channel 4) Channel 4)

In an announcement that surprised no-one, Peggy revealed that she and Georges have gone their separate ways. The 32-year-old announced earlier this week that they had split up, after having met on the E4 show last year. Georges, 30, has since spoken out over the news himself and he went on to criticise Peggy in a recent interview.

Speaking to the MailOnline, he suggested the former couple had sex six times over the course of the relationship and that "[Peggy] made me feel insecure. I have never been able to express myself sexually with her. I have always felt like, if I do that, she might then stop... or say she doesn't like anything like that."

He also told the outlet that he is "really tight for cash" following his romance with Peggy and alleged that she "paid for nothing" whilst they were together. It's claimed that he spent £1,000 in three days on a trip to Paris for her birthday.

In response, Peggy's representative told The Mirror previously: "It is with deep regret that Peggy has learned of the unfortunate end to her relationship with Georges. She has devoted herself entirely to making it work with him, but Georges has made the decision to terminate the relationship. Georges reached out to Peggy on December 23, 2023, and January 30, conveying his intentions through text messages.

Peggy and Georges' pairing didn't seem a natural choice, with a huge row during their honeymoon sparked by a discussion about sex work. Peggy was disgusted to find out he would squat on camera when he was gaming after taking on ‘challenges’ from other players.

Peggy said of his video: “To me, squatting is an activity one would do if someone is interested in looking at the person’s body. I wouldn’t want my partner doing that out of respect for themselves and me being their partner.”

The couple never had sex during the filming of the show, and Peggy was horrified to find out that Georges enjoys rimming – a sexual practice of orally pleasuring the anus. The conversation of what Georges likes in the bedroom was also discussed during a family visit in one of the most awkward scenes of the series.

The penultimate episode had Peggy voting to 'leave' while Georges voted to 'stay'. She agreed to stay for one more week to see if they could work through their issues. Homestay Week was also difficult for them as Peggy's dad forbade them from sharing a bedroom and grilled him about his profession, leaving Georges feeling hurt and exhausted.

Since the show aired, videos of Georges squatting have been leaked online, but he also shared an video of himself performing the forbidden posture. He captioned the post: “The famous squatting video! Don’t be afraid to share it with your friends. It was a strong man outfit, not a Tarzan outfit. What a pair of legs.”

Fans were quick to speculate that Georges sharing the video must mean he has now split with Peggy. One wrote: “Fair to say you and Peggy must not be together any more or she would not be allowing you to share.”

JJ and Bianca

Image: channel 4) channel 4)

JJ was immediately not attracted to his bride Bianca. He admitted he usually went for women who had 'lots of work done' and Bianca didn't fall under that category. Although Bianca tried to get to know him, he seemed to have a wall up the short time they were in the experiment.

The drama unfolded when JJ met Ella and fell for her. Not only did the two secretly text message each other, but they also met up in secret to play pool and flirt with one another. Ella told Nathanial about what happened, but JJ decided to keep it all a secret from his wife.

When she found out about his infidelity, Bianca called him out for 'thinking with his d**k'. Bianca told the experts: "During the commitment ceremony, she told the experts: "I didn't really feel like he even let me in. I felt like even from the wedding day there was a wall and I think he asked for a different type of person but I don't think he actually wanted a different type."

Bianca and JJ's connection ended there as they left the experiment, but there was a twist. JJ later returned to the experiment with 30-year-old transgender model Ella Clark, although their union failed to make it past the final commitment ceremony.

Since the show ended, JJ has found love with Katie Price. The 45-year-old mum-of-five surprised fans this month when details of a romance with the 31-year-old fashion brand owner emerged. They were spotted heading out for a romantic meal together in Southend-on-Sea. Having declared she wanted to wait for a man who would treat her well, Katie seems to be happy in her romance with JJ. A source told The Sun: "Katie has spent time in JJ's hometown in Essex and has already met his friends. She's got a reputation for falling hard and fast and so far it looks like things will be no different with JJ."

Ella and Nathanial

Image: Channel 4) Channel 4)

Ella and Nathanial were infamous for their drama on the series. Although they had a friendly beginning after meeting at the altar, Nathanial revealed he wasn't attracted to Ella. Ella, on the other hand, desired physical touch and compliments - something Nathanial wasn't able to give her.

They seemed to work through the worst of their marriage but eventually decided to be in a friendship pairing. However, it all went downhill when JJ walked into the experiment with his bride, Bianca. Ella and JJ admitted to being attracted to each other and started secretly exchanging messages.

This led to a huge blowout at the dinner party, with Nathanial announcing his departure and storming out of the experiment. Not long after the episode aired, Nathanial took to social media to claim he tried to leave the show during the honeymoon trip as Ella was supposedly asking guys for threesomes.

Thomas and Rozz

Image: E4) E4)

The duo didn't get along in the beginning but, after a lot of hard work, they slowly started to form a romantic connection. The two slept with each other for the first time as Rozz wanted to see if there was a connection. When Thomas found out this information, he was hurt.

They talked through their concerns and made compromises for each other and soon started to fall for each other. The couple still follow each other on Instagram and Thomas wrote a sweet tribute to her when their wedding ceremony aired for the world to see. "Thanks @rozzdarlington for being so amazing!" he said.

"You’re the most wonderful person I’ve ever met and I couldn’t have done #mafsuk with anyone else but you. I definitely drew the long straw. I can’t wait for everyone to see our journey!" Furthermore, Love and Hate Week saw Thomas go the extra mile to buy Rozz a few sex toys for them to try out.

Things turned sour during Homestay Week when Rozz ended the relationship after she realised the real world made her 'check out' of their relationship, leaving Thomas 'gutted'. He was left even more devastated when Rozz admitted during the commitment ceremony that she didn't want to have kids with him.

Speaking to The Mirror, Thomas said he respected her decision to leave him. He said: "I wouldn't have changed the outcome. Yeah, I felt like it was needed."

Mark and Sean

Image: E4) E4)

Mark and Sean also showed up to the experiment weeks into the series. They didn't have the best start as Mark judged the book by its cover and announced he 'didn't get what he wanted' in a husband. He even complained about Sean wearing a classic black suit for their ceremony.

Thankfully, they got to know each other during the honeymoon and after Mark opened up about his fears, their connection deepened. Mark and Sean chose to 'stay' at the commitment ceremony in recent episodes. The pair still follow each other on Instagram but they are no longer together as Sean decided the experiment wasn't for him and left the show - leaving Mark in tears.

Brad and Shona

Image: Channel 4) Channel 4)

Brad and Shona had a whirlwind ride during their short time in the experiment. When they met at the altar, they fell head over heels for each other despite not knowing a single thing about one another. It didn't take long before the two got physical and dropped the L bomb.

However, it wasn't all sunshine and rainbows as their relationship soon started to crack. Other contestants and fans started noticing a strange dynamic between the two, with fans accusing Brad of being 'controlling' and 'coercive'. Laura even took Shona aside to tell her she didn't like who she was when she was with Brad.

Uncomfortable scenes saw Brad tell his wife Shona to 'shut up' when she expressed her worry about other contestants not liking them as a couple. He also told the experts he 'allowed' Shona to feel certain emotions during the dramatic commitment ceremony. He said: "Not that I'm in a position of authority or to teach her, but if I allow her to get angry, is she ever going to learn?"

After intense backlash and a statement from Women's Aid, experts had to step in and remove the two from the experiment.

Porscha and Terence

Image: Channel 4) Channel 4)

Porscha and Terence had a bumpy ride throughout the experiment. She immediately said she wasn't attracted to him and things got worse when they tried to get to know each other. His being a DJ was a huge turn-off for her as she sleeps early and didn't like the idea of him being out late.

During the first commitment ceremony, Terence wanted to 'leave' but had to stay as Porscha wrote 'stay'. They seemingly started getting along during intimacy week but things went south when it was revealed Porscha kissed other men during a group game of spin the bottle.

Although he defended her during the dinner party, he later told the experts he felt betrayed and voted to 'leave', disappointing Porscha. She eventually agreed to leave the experiment. They were the first couple to leave the E4 show. They also don't follow each other on Instagram.

In an Instagram live video posted after his exit aired, Terence explained his reasons for leaving as he told fellow MAFS star Luke: "I watched that just a minute ago and I've got a headache. Obviously, I knew what was going to happen, but actually watching it and replaying it and how it went on the day...it just made me feel like, when I was going through that whole process it weren't easy. It weren't nice.

"Some people think it's all fun and games and you're doing it for TV, I know I definitely weren't."

Addressing the comment by Porsha that she was "blindsided" by Terence's decision, he added: "Yeah probably to be fair. I had checked out. I'm just like, 'Every week this woman has got me in drama'. What was my saying on week one, I said to Paul the expert that I don't do drama.

"I went in there to find a wife, thinking yeah we're gonna vibe, we're gonna cook, we're gonna have a good time... and then I got the complete opposite."

Arthur and Laura

Image: E4) E4)

Arthur and Laura were the prime examples of how opposites attract. Arthur, a Polish tennis coach, and Laura, a posh finance manager, didn't look like they would work out in the long term but they proved haters wrong by slowly building their relationship over the weeks.

At first, she didn't like him and was angered when she discovered he took his vows from the internet. He made up for it during their honeymoon by writing new vows from scratch. Despite getting along and falling for each other, fellow co-stars claimed their relationship wouldn't work in the real world - and it seems like they were right.

Arthur was seen locking lips with a mystery woman while celebrating his birthday at a nightclub in London with his fellow Married At First Sight co-stars. Arthur is said to have been joined by a brunette lady for dinner at Kabo in Fitzrovia before partying away at Libertine nightclub - igniting rumours that his relationship with Laura has come to an end.

A source told the MailOnline: “Arthur spent the entire night with a beautiful-looking brunette and they couldn't keep their hands off each other. They were kissing all over the club and definitely didn't care who saw them even though Married At First Sight viewers still think that he's in a relationship with Laura.

“Everyone had high hopes for Arthur and Laura but eventually their romance failed and since filming for the show ended, they have gone their separate ways. Arthur is having the best time that he can now, and it was his birthday, so a little bit of attention didn't go unwelcome."

The E4 reality stars' marriage broke down on during their final vowel renewal ceremony, leaving Arthur heartbroken. Taking to social media after the emotional scenes aired yesterday, Arthur mentioned "so many things" happened that "didn't make the edit".

He wrote on his Instagram : "Don’t cry because it’s over, smile because it happened. Thank you for what’s probably going to be one of the best experiences of my humble life."

Adrienne and Matt



Image: E4) E4)

Matt and Adrienne were happy with each other when they met at the altar. However, they struggled during their honeymoon when Matt accused her of being a 'showoff'. It's unknown whether the two are still together as they don't follow each other on Instagram but gushed over the wedding day.

In an interview with Heart, Matt explained his time on the show was a "good experience" and Adrienne said, "my wedding day was unbelievable and I felt like when I was matched with Matt we weren't strangers from the offset."

Adrienne revealed to Matt she did not want to have children while they were on their final date. This disappointed Matt as he said he would love to have kids one day. The topic of children has caused huge issues in their marriage.

Matt has now found love with Shona Manderson.

Luke and Jay

Image: E4) E4) Image: E4) E4)

Luke and Jay were the perfect match from the start. They were the first couple of the season to tie the knot and, after a serious talk, fell for each other. They went from strength to strength through every task and commitment ceremony and seemed to be the same person in different bodies.

They follow each other on social media and speak positively of each other on their pages.

However, things between them hit a wall in previous episodes after Luke shared his dislikes during Love and Hate Week. After telling Jay she doesn't 'tell him off enough', he claimed he could hypothetically get a girl's number on a night out and she wouldn't do anything about it.

After a huge fallout with Jordan that resulted in the couple leaving the show, it was confirmed were happily dating. He took to his social media to share a sweet message to Jay. Luke said: "What an experience! We may be leaving on controversial circumstances but we leave as a team! I couldn’t have wished to do this journey with anyone else, even if you never did tell me off @jay_howard.

"@jay_howard I just want to say how proud I am of you, as I have seen you grow from strength to strength. Your confidence is amazing and you now believe in yourself, which makes my heart burst. When you walk into a room it lights up and it always will. Now let’s go rob that bank together and get away with it. To keep with the show timeline here are some pics and videos of our holiday we went on the day after we left (It was much needed). #mafsuk #mafs"

Jay was clearly touched by the tribute as she replied in the comments by saying: "I couldn’t have done this with anyone else @lukeworley1". It looks like the happiness didn't last as the dinner party reunion saw the two back to being single while still having feelings for each other.

Luke admitted he wasn't able to give her what she wants as she cried and asked him to simply open up and communicate more.

Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.