Bones and All star Taylor Russell looked out of this world in a white gown as she attended the Bafta Film Awards on Sunday evening without her boyfriend Harry Styles

Taylor Russell looked out of this world in a flowing white gown as she arrived at the 77th EE British Academy Film Awards on Sunday evening.

The Bones and All actress, who is currently dating pop star Harry Styles, wore a high neck backless gown complete with a feather trim around the waist and bottom of the dress. The 29-year-old accessorised with a pair of sparkling diamond earrings and slicked back her hair into a simple yet classy style.

While Taylor posed for the endless cameras on the red carpet at the Royal Festival Hall in London, her other half was nowhere to be seen. Watermelon Sugar singer Harry, 30, was busy cheering on Manchester United as they went up against Luton at Kenilworth Road. The star, who was first linked to Taylor in the summer of last year, was pictured with Gary Neville, Jamie Redknapp , Curtis Davies and Hatters' captain Tom Lockyer before the match began.

Image: FilmMagic) FilmMagic) Image: Corbis via Getty Images) Corbis via Getty Images)

This year's Bafta Awards ceremony is being hosted by Doctor Who icon David Tennant, who referenced the US election, Barbie and Saltburn's raunchy scenes during his opening speech. David promised the Bafta Film Awards “is going to go smoother than Ken’s chest” as he opened the ceremony with a Barbie reference. Looking out at the star-studded audience, he added: “Look at you in your tuxedos and fancy dresses, like the opening scenes of Saltburn.

"Let’s hope it doesn’t end up like the closing scenes of Saltburn.” He continued: “Judging these awards is like picking a favourite child – difficult, not impossible, but difficult.” He also joked about the 2024 US presidential election, where Donald Trump and Joe Biden are expected to go head-to-head again, in his opening monologue.

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

Referencing Bafta-nominated surreal comedy Poor Things, the Scottish actor said the film is about how a woman is reanimated and has a child’s brain put into her head, joking: “One of them may even be elected president”. Poor Things, starring Emma Stone and Mark Ruffalo, won the award for special visual effects while animation The Boy And The Heron won the best animated film. Filmmaker Hayao Miyazaki is not at the ceremony so the award was collected by presenters Paul Mescal and Andrew Scott.

The drama film Earth Mama has been honoured with the Bafta for outstanding debut by a British writer, director or producer. Director Savanah Leaf was sobbing as she took to the stage to be presented with the award for her tale of a pregnant single mother. Leaf said “This is crazy”, adding: “Our lead had never acted before and she poured her heart into this and she was so fearless.” The director was given the award alongside Irish producers Shirley O’Connor and Medb Riordan. The Zone Of Interest has won the Bafta for a film not in the English language.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .