David Coote opted not to send off Casemiro in the first-half of Manchester United's clash with Luton Town which prompted questions over which club the referee supports

The PGMOL have already been forced to confirm David Coote is a Notts County fan, as accusations he supports Manchester United resurfaced during their clash with Luton.

The referee was the man making the decisions at Kenilworth Road and caused a stir when he failed to send off Casemiro in the first-half. The Brazilian was booked and minutes later committed a cynical foul but managed to escape a second yellow despite the home players surrounding the official.

There has always been a perception that top clubs get preferential treatment from officials and Coote only fed that narrative when he failed to dismiss Casemiro. Erik ten Hag opted to haul off the ex-Real Madrid man at half-time to avoid the risk of going down to ten men.

Former United man turned pundit Gary Neville concedes he was surprised to see Casemiro remain on the pitch. He said on Sky Sports: "He just lunges in after losing the ball, he’s a lucky boy [to not get sent off]. He’s very lucky, he’s ruffled and they’re all ruffled.

"He’s shouting, who is he shouting at? Garnacho? He’s ripping him apart, but to be fair, it’s not Garnacho’s fault because Casemiro was the one who lost the ball! Casemiro, if he manages to stay on the pitch for the next five minutes, then he has to be taken off at halftime."

There was speculation surrounding Coote's appointment in the Carabao Cup final last season when the Red Devils faced Newcastle United. An image did the rounds suggesting that Coote was in fact a Red Devils supporter, which forced the PGMOL to come out and clarify the situation.

Referees are unable to take charge of games that involve the team they support. It was then confirmed that Coote supported the League Two outfit, as reported by the Chronicle.

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

Coote has made several controversial decisions this term, angering Jurgen Klopp after he failed to give Liverpool a penalty against Arsenal in December. After the game the German took aim at Coote, who had been on VAR duty, for not intervening.

He said: "I don't say that the ref can see it because I don't know where he was in that moment. But how can a guy in an office see that and not come to the conclusion that maybe, possibly it could be worth the referee having another look?"

Join our new WhatsApp community and receive your daily dose of Mirror Football content. We also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don't like our community, you can check out any time you like. If you're curious, you can read our Privacy Notice.