In a press conference this afternoon officials in Minnesota shared details about the atrocities which killed two officers and a paramedic, confirming the suspect had arsenal of weapons and was firing from multiple locations

Police and officials have shared details of a horrific major incident which saw two police officers and a paramedic killed by a man with a large arsenal of weapons who was holding seven children hostage. At a press conference this afternoon, the authorities confirmed that they were called in the early hours of Sunday and the man began firing from multiple locations around the house after police spent some time negotiating with him.

Law enforcement confirmed that police were called at 1.50am on Sunday, February 18 to a report of a domestic situation, with the call coming from inside the house. on East East 130th Street in Burnsville, Dakota County, Minnesota. At the scene a man was armed and barricaded with family members including seven young children in the home.

At the conference, Drew Evans of the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension said that the man was firing from multiple locations and elevations and "had several guns and a large amount of ammunition." Two police officers and a paramedic were shot dead in the incident before the suspect turned the gun on himself. One police officer was shot inside the house, the others outside. The paramedic was tending to a wounded police officer when he was hit.

Police officers Paul Elmstrand and Matthew Ruge, both 27, and firefighter/paramedic Adam Finseth, 40, have been named as the fallen heroes killed while responding to the call. A third police officer also sustained injuries but is expected to survive.

READ MORE: Burnsville shooting victims named after 2 police officers and medic killed by man holding kids hostage

The suspect was reported dead around 8am after shooting himself, and the family members made it out safely. An image shared by CBS News affiliate WCCO shows a SWAT vehicle with at least six bullet holes in the windshield.

Speaking to the press conference, held at 4pm local time, (10pm GMT) , a tearful Gregg Lindberg, Burnsville City Manager, said it was a “difficult and emotional day for the city”. He added: “Words can’t express how hard today has been.”‌

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

Image: Fox) Fox)

Mr Lindberg then passed over to Drew Evans of the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension said who confirmed details of the atrocity. He said: “This is really a terrible day for the city.” He revealed that one of the officers was shot inside of the home, the others outside.

MrEvans confirmed that the gunman shot at police from several locations around the house, from the first and second floor, and had several guns and a large amount of ammunition. He said police were called at 1.50am to a report of a domestic situation, with the call coming from inside the house.

Image: CBS) CBS)

A man was armed and barricaded with family members including seven young children in the home. He said they “spent quite a bit of time negotiating with the individual” before additional officers arrived. The man then opened fire on the officers. The third officer suffered non life-threatening injuries. He confirmed the shooter was found deceased at home around 8am, and the family escaped.



Mr Evans added: “Residents are asked to allow our teams to complete the investigation and stay away from the area. We still don’t know the exact exchange of gunfire. The man had several guns and lots of ammunition and shot at the police from several locations around the house." Police confirmed they had not had many interactions with the address previously.

Speaking of the impact of the incident, tearful Police chief Tanya Schwarz said: “This is a really hard day for our public safety family, we’re hurting, we’re really hurting. Today members of our team made the ultimate sacrifice. They are heroes.

“They know they have to give up their life sometime - and they do it anyways. You cannot understand it unless you’re in the profession. Every day we want them to return to their families. And today, that is not happening. We are heartbroken. Our families need time to be together, to grieve. We need you to pray for them.”

Before the conference confirming the details, politicians had been sharing news they had heard as well as condolences. Amy Klobuchar, US senator for Minnesota, wrote on X, formerly called Twitter: "Learned from police this morning that three officers have been shot in Burnsville. They were doing their jobs. They were protecting our community. John and I are praying for them and their families and the Burnsville P.D. this morning."

Minnesota Governor Tim Walz also wrote on X: "Horrific news from Burnsville. While responding to a call of a family in danger, two police officers and one firefighter lost their lives, and other officers were injured.

"We must never take for granted the bravery and sacrifices our police officers and first responders make every day. My heart is with their families today and the entire State of Minnesota stands with Burnsville."

Image: fox 9) fox 9)

Rep. Jim Nash, who has been serving in the Minnesota House of Representatives since 2015, shared the news on X and wrote: "My heart is heavy for the families of these officers, the community of Burnsville, and for our country because this headline is not unique."

Pete Stauber, who serves as the US representative for Minnesota's 8th congressional district, added: "Devastating news coming out of Burnsville this morning. My prayers are with the fallen officers and paramedic, their families, and the entire Burnsville community. This is a terribly sad reminder of the grave danger posed to our brave law enforcement officers."

Minneapolis police chief Brian O'Hara wrote on X: "Please keep Burnsville Police Dept in your prayers this morning." The Olmsted County Sheriff's Office added: "Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of the officers shot and the entire Burnsville Police Department."

The Washington County Sheriff's Office added: "We are deeply saddened to hear of the loss of our partners in Burnsville today. There are no words." The Edina Police Department wrote on X: "Please keep the Burnsville community in your thoughts and prayers this morning."

Brian Peters, executive director of the Minnesota Police and Peace Officers Association, said the law enforcement community was "heartbroken." He said in a statement: "We're just devastated at the horrific loss. These heroes leave behind loved ones and a community who will forever remember their bravery and dedication to keeping Minnesotans safe."