Suri Cruise was seen out and about with her mum Katie Holmes in NYC on Monday - and while some said the pair look alike, others pointed out the teen is Tom Cruise's 'doppelganger'

Tom Cruise 's teenage daughter stepped out for a walk in New York City this week - and many fans said she looks exactly like her famous dad.

Suri Cruise, 17, was spotted with her mum Katie Holmes in the Soho neighbourhood of NYC on Monday. The 45-year-old "Dawson's Creek" actress wore an oversized denim jacket over a red sweater and black trousers, white trainers, sunglasses and a chunky necklace.

Her daughter, who looked smiley with her mum, opted for light-wash bootcut jeans, brown cowboy boots, a Western-style coat and a brown leather crossbody bag decorated with two lions. The duo appeared to be enjoying their day out together as they were laughing together while walking along the pavement.

READ MORE: Tom Cruise 'makes things official' with Russian socialite after string of lavish dates

Image: BrosNYC / BACKGRID) BrosNYC / BACKGRID) Image: Jackson Lee / Tom Meinelt) Jackson Lee / Tom Meinelt)

Many pointed out on Instagram that Suri looks exactly like her mother, while others also saw the resemblance between her and her father as a person said: "You guys keep saying she looks like Kate. She's Tom's spitting image." One more added: "Doppelgänger to her Dad." Another wrote: "She has great style."

Suri was born in 2006 and has now grown to become a singer with credits in movies such as her mum's "Alone Together", where she sang "Blue Moon" for the opening part. While Tom was often photographed with his daughter in her early years, sources have now claimed the pair have been estranged since 2013 - a year after he divorced from Katie.

In May 2023, a source told the Daily Mail that Tom and Suri do not stay in touch. They claimed: "Suri does not know her father anymore and she has not spent time with him in a decade. She does not go to see his movies and he has no part in her life."

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

According to their divorce documents, Tom agreed to pay Katie $400,000 (£317,000) a month until Suri turns 18 years old. He also agreed to pay all of Suri's expenses, including "medical, dental, insurance, education, college and other extracurricular costs".

When Katie and Tom called time on their relationship, it was reported that Katie had chosen to end the marriage over fears about raising her daughter as a Scientologist which is Tom's religion. The two tied the knot in Italy back in 2006 in a Scientologist ceremony, but as the years went on, Katie began feeling "intimidated" by the church.

Image: FilmMagic) FilmMagic)

Katie's decision to leave the religion and the marriage caused a rift between the former couple, which has seen Tom and Suri's relationship become distant. According to reports, Katie did not want to raise Suri as a Scientologist after seeing Tom's first wife Nicole Kidman "become distant" with their kids, as per MailOnline in 2016. Katie reportedly fumed when members of the Church of Scientology moved into the ex-couple's home.

Ron Miscavige, the father of Scientology leader David, told the outlet there is a "toxic" policy of "disconnection" operating within the church. Speaking to MailOnline five years before he died in 2016, he said: "That didn't sit so well with Katie. Of course, and it hurt the marriage," he explained. "She and Tom had big differences about the way life should be lived."

* Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .