Judy Parfitt is beloved for her portrayal of Sister Monica Joan in BBC's Call the Midwife but she has had a career that has spanned many decades and is married to a famous actor

Judy Parfitt is known for playing Sister Monica Joan in BBC's hit drama series Call the Midwife but she has had an illustrious career spanning many decades from stage to film and on TV. She has starred in Call the Midwife since 2012.

The 86-year-old has gathered various BAFTA nominations over the years and has starred in some of the most popular drama series over the past 40 years or so. It started in 1953 when Judy graduated from the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art and she headed to the theatre and the Royal Shakespeare Company, where she starred alongside iconic actors like Laurence Olivier.

BAFTA nominations followed for her work on the silver screen with her performances in The Jewel in the Crown, and playing Lady Catherine de Bourgh in Pride and Prejudice, putting her in line for an award. A nomination for Best Actress in a Supporting Role as Maria Thins in 2003's Girl with a Pearl Earring followed but unfortunately she didn't get the nod for the top prize. Roles in Heartbeat, Midsomer Murders, Jonathan Creek and Vera followed as she starred in some viewers' favourites.

Image: WireImage) WireImage) Image: BBC / Nealstreat Productions / Ray Burmiston) BBC / Nealstreat Productions / Ray Burmiston)

In 1963, Judy married actor Tony Steedman, who made his names in the likes of Coronation Street, Citizen Smith, The Rivals of Sherlock Holmes. Speaking to the Express, Judy spoke about when she first met Tony: "Tony had the leading role and he was always trying to make me laugh as I was a terrible giggler. The first time I saw him he was wearing this absolutely hideous bright red jumper, so he definitely made an impression."

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

She added: "He had people in stitches wherever we went and he was always playing the fool. Whereas I tended to worry, Tony didn't and he never took himself or anything too seriously." After marrying in 1963, they welcomed their son David a year later. Unfortunately, Tony died in 2001 and Judy has not looked for love since.

Judy revealed details of her marriage when speaking to Mail Online in 2014: "While both of us were very busy, at home it was a very traditional marriage. I enjoyed cooking and ironing his shirts for him. He loved to be my sous chef, chopping the vegetables while I made dinner. He enjoyed accompanying me to the supermarket, pushing my trolley — but it wasn't to help me so much as he loved the opportunity to chat and joke with the other shoppers."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTubeand Threads.