Prince William put a tumultuous few weeks for the royals - which saw his father King Charles and wife the Princess of Wales undergo hospital treatment and his brother Harry give a revealing interview to Good Morning America - to attend the Bafta film awards in London solo on Sunday night

The Prince of Wales has arrived at this year's Bafta film awards in London, attending the red carpet event solo after his wife the Princess of Wales was forced to withdraw as she recovers from surgery.

The ceremony is the first high-profile engagement William, who is president of the British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA), has appeared at since his wife's operation. It was believed he would miss the event on Sunday at the Southbank Centre’s Royal Festival Hall.

Last year, he attended the ceremony along with the Princess of Wales, who shone among the stars of the silver screen in a floorlength white Alexander McQueen gown and contrasting black gloves.

Kate has not been seen in public since undergoing surgery on January 16 at the London Clinic. She is currently recovering at Adelaide Cottage in Windsor with her three children.

Since the royal health announcements, which have also included his father the King’s unspecified cancer diagnosis and separate prostate treatment, William has attended few events. He broke cover to give a speech at a London charity engagement raising funds for London’s Air Ambulance Charity’s new fleet of helicopters earlier this month.

The family have undergone more turbulence in recent days, following Prince Harry's interview with Good Morning America where he spoke publicly about his father's illness.

Image: PA) PA)

Prince Harry told the US daytime show that he 'loves his family' and hopes his father's cancer battle would have 'unifying effect' on them. He spoke out after flying across the Atlantic to spend just 45 minutes with Charles when the King's health update was made public.

“The fact that I was able to get on a plane and go and see him and spend any time with him, I’m grateful for that,” said the Duke. It was also claimed that Harry had told pals he would consider taking on official duties again to help The Firm during his father's illness.

Prince William is said to have been left incensed at the suggestion.

Putting a tumultuous few weeks for the royals behind him, Prince William was all smiles as he attended the showbiz bash in London on Sunday 18th February.

Christopher Nolan’s epic biopic about atomic bomb creator J Robert Oppenheimer is expected to be a big winner of the night after Oppenheimer received 13 nominations.

Cillian Murphy, who played the titular role in Oppenheimer, will go up against fellow Irish star Barry Keoghan, who is nominated for his leading role in Emerald Fennell’s viral black comedy Saltburn, in the best actor category.

Also expected to attend are Bradley Cooper and Carey Mulligan, who are both nominated for their roles in Cooper’s Leonard Bernstein biopic Maestro, and Colman Domingo, who is nominated for Rustin, where he plays the man who helped Martin Luther King Jr and others organise the 1963 March On Washington.

Mulligan’s best actress rivals Margot Robbie, who is nominated for Barbie; Emma Stone, for Poor Things; Sandra Huller, for Anatomy Of A Fall; Fantasia Barrino, for The Color Purple and Vivian Oparah, recognised for British romantic comedy Rye Lane, will also be at the awards.

The ceremony will also feature a live musical performance by Ted Lasso star Hannah Waddingham while Sophie Ellis-Bextor will sing her 2001 hit Murder On The Dancefloor, which experienced a surge in popularity after it featured in the closing moments of Saltburn.

The EE Bafta film awards will be hosted by Doctor Who star David Tennant at the Royal Festival Hall on Sunday February 18.

The ceremony will be broadcast on BBC One and iPlayer from 7pm.