Following the news of King Charles' cancer diagnosis, the Prince of Wales is facing an increasing number of duties at a time where he wants to be a 'devoted husband and father', a royal expert explains

Prince William is feeling "besieged" during what is a scary time in his life, according to a royal expert.

The Prince of Wales made a triumphant return to official duties last week - but behind closed doors, he is facing heartbreak as he comes to terms with his father's cancer diagnosis, while also caring for his wife Kate, and looking after their three young children.

William is now preparing to take on an increased workload as his father recovers. Expert Jennie Bond told OK magazine: "He's staring his destiny in the face. This is not a time in which he wanted to take on extra responsibilities, and it's not a time when he really wanted to contemplate the fact that one day in the very foreseeable future he is going to be a monarch.

"This is a time in his life where we know he just wants to be a hands-on dad and a very supportive husband. He'll feel somewhat besieged by his wife being ill and now his father having cancer - this is a scary time for him. He's already lost his mother, and I think that gives you a vulnerability with any illness with a parent when you've already lost one, so I really feel for William in this."

On top of his concern over his family's health, William is also being forced to confront the issue of his younger brother, Prince Harry.

Harry flew over for 24 hours to see their father following the news of his diagnosis. And it's since been reported that he is "willing" to take on a temporary royal role as Charles receives treatment.

However, sources close to the King are insistent that their recent meeting hasn't changed things, with Charles "firmly of the opinion" there is no way back to the royal fold for Harry. They do, though, say the monarch would be open to fixing his strained relationship with his son.

The same does not seem to be true of William. A royal source confirmed to the Mirror that there is "no chance" the heir would allow his brother back.

"Whatever has been discussed between William and the King is private, but it is absolutely and categorically clear that he (William) would not allow Harry to return. He thought it was a bad idea at the time and he's even more clear now," the insider said, noting that William believes Harry and his wife Meghan "cannot be trusted".

"If anyone is going to take on more duties it will be William and that isn't even on the agenda for now. His main focus is on his father's health, his family and what is best for the monarchy. There is a zero per cent chance Harry is coming back in any capacity."

Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at yourmirror@trinitymirror.com

11 Best Mother's Day hampers 2024 from Marks and Spencer, The White Company and Amazon