The Traitors winner Harry Clarke is looking to 'play the long game' and has 'rejected an eye-watering reality TV deal' as he plots his next move

Since winning The Traitors, Harry Clarke has become hot TV property but he is determined to "play the long game" instead of cashing in on a huge reality show offer.

Harry has reportedly rejected the opportunity to star in the upcoming series of Celebrity Big Brother, with ITV willing to offer £250,000 to secure him for the show, more than double the £95,150 that he scooped for winning BBC show The Traitors. Harry is looking for something different to the reality show offering as he plans his next strep.

A source told The Sun : "Just like his time on the whodunnit show, he is being incredibly shrewd about every move he makes and wants to play the long game. He's made no bones about the fact that he fancies doing reality TV and although he was incredibly flattered by the offer, Celebrity Big Brother didn't feel like the right project for him."

Image: instagram) instagram)

According to reports, Harry has signed with talent company InterTalent and the former army lance corporal, having decided to leave the army after his TV success, has been inundated with offers with big names among those looking to secure his services. The source also claimed: "He's now got expert guidance from one of the best talent agencies in the country after having no less than 16 companies approach him to broker deals on his behalf."

Since winning, fans have since uncovered Harry seemingly lived a lavish lifestyle before appearing on the show and taking home the huge cash prize. He not only has flown on private jets but he also has celebrity friends. Viewers became conflicted by the photos of Harry's real life as on the show he confessed he wanted the prize so he could take his family out for dinner and not worry about being able to afford the bill.

Image: BBC/Studio Lambert/Paul Chappells) BBC/Studio Lambert/Paul Chappells)

Harry has since had his say on the backlash and insisted the photos are not all as it appears. Speaking to Metro.co.uk, he said: "I wish I had a private jet and I wish I had the money to go on a private jet, it’s a waste of money to be honest. Everyone thinks I’m rich but I was very lucky to meet my other half, whose brothers have worked amazingly hard since they were 15, and I’ve somehow managed to silver-tongue my way through and weave my way into their lifestyle."

He is dating CBBC presenter Anna Maynard, who is the sister of singer Conor Maynard and I'm A Celebrity star Jack Maynard. Harry went on to say that all of his designer bags are fake as he "wouldn’t spend that money, because it’s a waste".

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .