Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are said to have forked out a sum of money to a British businessman in order to get the Sussex domain for their new brand overhaul

Prince Harry and Meghan Markle 'pay the price' for new website in bid for brand overhaul

Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have reportedly been made to pay the price to create their new Sussex brand.

The couple were intent on starting afresh, while also using their Sussex name to do so. In order to make this happen, it's said the Duke and Duchess had to pay off the person who owned the rights to the Sussex.com page - and did so "without argument".

It's been said the man who initially head the domain is a British-born businessman who is "very happy" with the payout he allegedly received. The new site quietly launched a week ago, replacing the outgoing Archewell.com page.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Prince William 'carrying the weight of worry' while Harry was 'elated' on Canada trip

Harry and Meghan revamped the Archewell site, which is now redirects to the Sussex one. They bought Sussex.com for an 'undisclosed sum' and didn't even reveal their identity to the seller.

According to the Sun on Sunday, Neil Agate held the Sussex page and the couple used a broker to pay him an undisclosed fee to take it over. It's said the US-based businessman had created the unique name in 1995 and simply held onto it ever since. On February 4, just nine days before the new site launched, the domain was registered.

Agate told the publication: "I got inquiries over the years. You wouldn’t believe how many Sussex insurance companies there are. Most weren’t worth the effort. I got an email from a broker in December and replied with my asking price. They accepted it. I think the price was fair. I didn’t know who was buying it. I’m very happy with the situation."

The new site has come in for criticism in the week since it launched. The couple used the Duchess' coat of arms, which critics claim exploits their royal links for potential commercial gain. However, there is said to have been a "loophole" allowing them to do so.

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

It was reported that sources in the royal household feel that the change veers dangerously close to using their royal status for commercial gain. Others described it as a breach of the agreement, 'if not in letter, certainly in spirit'.

Richard Fitzwilliams told the Sun that it is a loophole to get around Queen Elizabeth II banning their "SussexRoyal" brand when they moved to the US. And he said it "advertises a couple whose best future could be behind them".

He said: "They have every right to use the coat of arms, but this involves using loopholes to effectively bring back SussexRoyal and exploit their royal status. They have caused the family tremendous amounts of damage.

"The only way they made money was by using their royal links on their Netflix docuseries and Harry's book Spare. Since Charles was diagnosed with cancer they cannot attack the Royal Family. But if this is the best they can do, who's giving them advice? It's rather boring. It's quite puzzling."

A source close to the pair hit back however, insisting they have every right to use the title as it is "their surname and family name".

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

*Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .