The Loose Women panellist is a big fan of the game and its unique lingo

Coleen Nolan says she likes nothing better than playing bingo with her famous sisters

Coleen Nolan is loved by millions for her straight talking appearances on Loose Women.

Her openness and honesty about her life both on and off camera has made her one of the chat show’s most popular presenters.

But there is one passion many viewers are unaware of; she is bonkers about bingo.

MeccaBingo.com has signed up as lead sponsor of ITV’s Loose Women, following on from its partnership with the programme and the success of its Loose Women Bingo online game.

Loose Women panellist Coleen grew up watching her mum in the bingo hall and loves playing with sisters Anne, Denise, Maureen and Linda whenever she has the chance.

She said: “I’m a massive fan of bingo. I grew up watching my mum play bingo. She loved it. I was so in awe of her.

“When I lived in Blackpool myself and my sisters all went to Mecca Bingo. I used to love the lingo, all the shouting out and the clinking of the glasses.

“I’m not living there now and I’m usually travelling to London on a Sunday but my sisters still go on. I actually really miss going.”

Coleen can now play online at Loose Women Bingo which has up to £110,000 to win online each month with a jackpot of £500 up for grabs in every game.

Players can also enjoy the Bingo Bestie feature, where they’ll be paired with another player to double their chances of winning.

Tickets for the 90-ball online Loose Women Bingo game start from just 5p. Each ticket has 15 numbers and prizes for one line, two lines and a full house. There’s also a chat room so you can have a natter online, just like the Loose Women panellists, while you play.

If Coleen was to swap her sisters for one of her fellow panellists as a regular bingo bestie, there is no doubt who it would be.

She said: “I think my bingo bestie would probably be Janet Street-Porter. She’d take it very seriously. She would be quiet and anyone who breathed loudly, she’d have them. It would be funny!”

The online Loose Women Bingo game can be played on the go which will be perfect for Coleen when her nationwide tour begins in February. Tickets for Coleen Nolan Naked - Music, Life & Laughter are available now atcoleentour.com

Just like the award-winning chat show, you can join in the ultimate chinwag at Loose Women Bingo. Play at meccabingo.com/loose-women-bingo

18+. Begambleaware.org. T&Cs apply.