Police were called to an address in Bristol and made the shocking discovery of three dead children inside the property, leading to the arrest of a 42-year-old woman

A woman arrested on suspicion of murdering three children in a Bristol suburb was "having a hard time" with her newborn, neighbours said today.

The woman, known locally only as Jasmine, is currently being held in police custody at a hospital after police made the shocking discovery following a welfare call at about 12:40 this morning. Three children — believed by neighbours to be a boy, aged around eight, a girl thought to be aged around four, and a baby boy of around six months — were pronounced dead at the scene.

Their cause of death is yet to be confirmed and an investigation has now been launched. Jasmine is believed to have lived in Bristol since 2017. Avon and Somerset Police have not confirmed the name of the woman, the ages of the children or their relationship to her.

A woman, who did not wish to be named, described Jasmine as "lovely" to the PA news agency. She continued: "She was so happy when she had that little boy. We were so happy for her, we came round and gave gifts. I was very surprised because she was really gentle, really lovely. She always had a smile on her face. After the baby, she was having a really hard time."

Image: PA) PA)

A 42-year-old Bristol taxi driver said he had last seen the mother and her three children two weeks ago. He said: “She was happy. Her kids were all happy.” The man said the family were part of the Sudanese community in Bristol. He added: “She is a very nice person. It is very sad.”

Jasmine's husband, like his wife, is believed to be Sudanese, according to a neighbour, but it is not known if he was in the property at the time. The street is in a quiet neighbourhood about four miles north-west of Bristol city centre, where police officers continued to be posted outside the semi-detached house on Sunday night.

Others were carrying out door-to-door inquiries. A Methodist church hall was opened up by police to give members of the community a place to meet and comfort one another. The news comes after a string of tragic events in the city in recent weeks, including the fatal stabbings of four teenagers in less than 12 months.

The unnamed taxi driver told the Guardian the father, who worked as a security guard, was not living at the house and that Jasmine was not happy with her husband. He continued: "They asked me to take them to Tesco. They did their shopping then I took them back home."

Bristol Mayor Marvin Rees said: "It's almost impossible to find the words to describe this afternoon's devastating news from Sea Mills, Bristol. My thoughts are with all who knew these three young children – we will be working with schools, the community, and the police to support people"

Neighbourhood Chief Inspector Vicks Hayward-Melen said: "This is an incredibly tragic and heartbreaking incident in which three children have sadly died. My sincere condolences go to the children's loved ones, and we will be ensuring they are offered support through our family liaison unit. We believe this to be an isolated incident and there is no further risk to the wider community, however, officers will remain at the scene to provide reassurance to anyone who has any questions or concerns. Over the coming days, residents can expect to see an increased police presence and we thank them for their cooperation during this time."

A full statement from Avon & Somerset Police says: "Detectives from the Major Crime Investigation Team (MCIT) are investigating following the deaths of three children at an address in Bristol. Officers attended a concern for welfare call in Blaise Walk, in Sea Mills, on Sunday 18 February at around 12.40am. Tragically, three young children inside the property were pronounced dead a short time later. A 42-year-old woman has been arrested on suspicion of murder and she is in police custody at hospital."

Avon & Somerset Police added: "As is usual in these circumstances we have notified the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC) due to prior police contact."

Sea Mills Primary School announced it would be closed on Monday morning and re-open at 1:30pm.

Are you at the scene? Did you see what happened? If so, email webnews@trinitymirror.com.