It's easy to get invested when watching ITV's The Chase, and in this particular episode people felt really sorry for the contestant who got an 'impossible' question about space

Sometimes The Chase viewers can't help shouting the answers to the screen - but this time they completely understood why the contestant was stumped.

With a regular audience of between three and five million people, ITV's The Chase is one of the most successful game shows in the UK. People can't help but love the six Chasers - Mark Labbett, Shaun Wallace, Anne Hegerty, Paul Sinha, Jenny Ryan and Darragh Ennis, who regularly go head-to-head with members of the public to test their quiz knowledge.

Although the Chasers are incredibly smart, they do sometimes get caught out by contestants, who go on to win massive cash prizes. But in part due to one particularly hard question, this wasn't the case for retired planning manager Janet, who went up against Paul 'Sinnerman' Sinha back in May 2022.

Image: ITV) ITV)

After the episode viewers called for Janet to be called back for a replay due to the 'impossible' question she was asked, after managing to answer a whopping eight questions in the cash builder round, asked by host Bradley Walsh.

But after choosing to stay with her £8,000 offer, Bradley asked her: "What is the approximate weight of the Earth in kilograms?" She was given three options: Six quintillions, six sextillions or six septillions.

Janet went with six sextillions, which unfortunately was the wrong answer. Paul went on to pick six septillions, which was correct, although admitted it was a "total guess" but that he had done for the "highest" number.

It wasn't just Janet who was baffled by the question, with Bradley saying: "How would you even weight the earth?". Fans of the Chase were also sympathetic with the contestant, with one person taking to social media to ask: "How was Janet supposed to know the weight of the earth ??? Pop it on a pair of kitchen scales ???? Ridiculous #thechase bring her back, questions are supposed to be factual not estimated clap trap!"

Another quipped: "Terrible and stupid first 2 questions for Janet on #TheChase," while someone else said: "#TheChase this past while it seems that the questions given to good players are ridiculous. Almost as if they’re trying to get rid of them."

Janet ended up being caught out by Paul, as did fellow contestants Georgina and LeRoy. It was up to Dominic to try to win the £5,000 he had built on his own, but the Chaser managed to catch him in 30 seconds, sending him home with nothing.

Did you know the answer to the question? Let us know in the comment section below.