Prince Harry will likely bring his two children, Princess Lilibet and Prince Archie, to the United Kingdom so that they can visit the King amid his cancer diagnosis

Prince Harry will likely bring his children Princess Lilibet and Prince Archie to visit the King after his cancer diagnosis, it has been speculated.

The Duke of Sussex moved to California with his wife Meghan Markle in 2020. Shortly before they made the move across the pond, the couple announced they were stepping down as senior working members of the Royal Family.

The Sussexes now reside in the lavish area of Montecito with their two children. Archie and Lilibet haven't spent much time in England, or with their UK-based family which includes their grandparents the King and Queen, and their cousins - the children of the Prince and Princess of Wales.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Prince Harry's televised interview 'was for PR' but he is 'keen to build bridges'

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

A source recently told OK! Magazine: "Harry wants to spend more time in the UK and bring the children over to be with their grandparents and cousins, but he will have to prove himself first. That's been made very clear to him."

This follows on from Harry's recent trip to the UK after he spoke to his father on the phone when the King's cancer diagnosis was unveiled to the world.

And now, a PR guru who specialises in royal commentary, Lynn Carratt from Press Box PR, has said that Prince Harry will likely want to make a visit to the UK with his children this year. During his recent Good Morning America interview, Harry mentioned that he had several planned trips for the year, which will allow him to visit his family in the UK as much as he can.

"Since King Charles’ Cancer diagnosis and Harry’s quick dash across the pond, I think it has hit home with Harry just how important family is to him. I suspect he’ll want to bring his Children, Lilibet and Archie, to the UK to visit their grandad," Lynn told The Mirror.

She went on: "King Charles has only met Lilibet once at the Platinum Jubilee in 2022 and, Archie left the UK when he was a baby, so his meetings with the King have been sparse and, they don’t have a relationship with their maternal grandfather, so I suspect Harry would like to grow their relationship with King Charles."

Lynn then touched on how Harry has previously spoken about ensuring his children know about their British heritage and how he wants to ensure they understand their legacy. "And now the kids are a little bit older; I am certain Archie and Lillibet will be making more frequent visits to the UK," she added.

Concluding her analysis on whether or not Harry will visit the UK with his kids soon, Lynn wrapped up by saying: "There is also hope that their father’s illness will bring Harry and William closer together in the future and allow Archie and Lillibet to become closer to George, Charlotte and Louis. But this will take time."

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .