Bayern Munich's poor run of form continued as they were beaten at Bochum to leave themselves eight points off Bundesliga leaders Bayer Leverkusen with Thomas Tuchel's future far from clear

Bayern Munich lost for the third time in eight days as Bochum dealt another blow to their floundering campaign.

Defeat for the Bavarians means they are now eight points off the pace in the Bundesliga with the unbeaten Bayer Leverkusen storming towards the title. Bayern saw their rivals open up a gap on Saturday but were expected to see off Bochum and reduce the points deficit.

Jamal Musiala opened the scoring for Bayern within 15 minutes but then things went from bad to worse. Bochum had turned the game on its head to lead 2-1 by the interval with Dayot Upamaecano sent-off in the final ten minutes as the champions chased the game.

The hosts then converted a penalty through Kevin Stoger to give put them 3-1 ahead. Despite being down a man Harry Kane was able to pull a goal back for Bayern, giving hope to a late comeback, but they couldn't find the crucial third goal that would've rescued a point.

Defeat at the Vonovia Ruhrstadion follows Bayern's 1-0 loss at Lazio in the Champions League on Wednesday evening. Days before that they were also humbled in their mammoth clash with Leverkusen, who secured an emphatic 3-0 win over Munich.

It means that Bayern could easily end the year without a single trophy. The Bavarians have been Germany's dominant force for well over a decade and have also claimed several German Cups and Champions Leagues in that period, but Thomas Tuchel could preside over a horror year if things continue.

The ex-Chelsea boss has not yet been in charge for a season after taking over from Julian Nagelsmann less than a year ago. Now reports are suggesting that Bayern are ready to part with Tuchel once the season comes to an end with the manager himself unsure of his future at the Allianz Arena.

Xabi Alonso, the man who looks like he will end their Bundesliga dominance with Leverkusen, is the man they admire and they could rival Liverpool and go after the young Spanish coach. Alonso has previously played for Bayern as well as the Reds so has an affiliation with both sides.

Kane was Tuchel's marquee signing in the summer but looks set to remain trophyless with his manager confessing he's not overly happy with the current form. He said: "Harry...already knows what he’s doing. And of course he’s unhappy with the way he’s involved at the moment and we are dissatisfied with how we find and don’t find him (in games)."

Join our new WhatsApp community and receive your daily dose of Mirror Football content. We also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don't like our community, you can check out any time you like. If you're curious, you can read our Privacy Notice.