Nazi flags were flown on the Capitol building in Nashville, Tennessee, as white supremacy march by masked extremists performing Nazi salutes sparks outrage

Masked neo-Nazis have been captured in shocking footage marching through traditionally black neighbourhoods yesterday before raising their swastika flags at the State capitol building.

Shock spread across the city of Nashville, Tennessee, as dozens of uniformed extremists descended, performing Hitler salutes as they marched down Nashville's 'Honky Tonk Highway'.

The extremist group was unchallenged as they took over a podium at the state capitol building for a show of strength, while being met with fury as they took their protest to the streets of the city. Bystanders raged, with one shouting "Show me your f***ing faces!" as they stomped past, "What are you ashamed of?"

"You don't belong here," one of the protesters replied, "Go to your third-world country."

This is not the first protest of this kind. The marchers are thought to be members of the white supremacist 'Blood Tribe' organisation that has caused trouble with previous protests at the Wisconsin state capitol and outside Disney World in Orlando, Florida.

The extreme white supremacist group espouses anti-Semitic, racist and homophobic views and parades in military-style clothing, with the majority armed.

READ MORE: 'Walt Disney World let me rediscover my childlike wonder from Tron to Toy Story'

Image: Fox News) Fox News) Image: Twitter) Twitter)

The Maine group was founded by former US Marine turned tattoo artist Christopher Polhaus, who has been linked to the January 6 riots at the US Capitol Building in Washington, DC, in 2021 when five people lost their lives in the extremist attack. Female or LGBT members are prohibited and the hardcore group sees itself as 'the only path to a white ethnostate', rejecting white supremacists who call for anything less according to the Anti-Defamation League.

The group picketed drag shows in Wisconsin and Ohio in 2023. The openly homophobic organisation arrived heavily armed at two Pride events in Toledo and Watertown, performing Hitler salutes and chanting 'Us or the pedophiles' at those marching.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US

Image: Twitter) Twitter)

They have previously come to blows with right-wing journalist and former Congressional candidate Laura Loomer during a protest at Orlando in September and a video posted online showed one of the members tell Loomer she should be '"thrown in an oven".

"Very vitriolic and irrational behaviour," the controversial Jewish Trump loyalist tweeted.

"But, it is moments like this that remind us that this is what free speech was created for. Speech you disagree with is also free speech."

Around 20 members of the group stopped outside a former synagogue in Wisconsin in November, chanting " Israel is not our friend" and "there will be blood" as state police watched on.