Trisha Goddard has vowed to "keep enjoying what I have always enjoyed" as she goes public with her cancer diagnosis.

Speaking in a new interview alongside her husband, the 66-year-old TV presenter has reveal that her breast cancer has returned after previously being diagnosed and recovering from the illness in 2008. Trisha has secondary breast cancer – also known as metastatic or stage 4 breast cancer – for which there is treatment, but no cure.

She discovered the diagnosis 19 months ago but has only just shared her health news publicly. "It's not going to go away," she says, simply. "And with that knowledge comes grief, and fear. But I must keep enjoying what I have always enjoyed." The TV legend - who hosted a talk show on Channel 5 from 2005 until 2009 - after previously hosting BAFTA award winning show Trisha on ITV from 1998 until 2004.

Image: WireImage) WireImage) Image: PA) PA)

Trisha has discussed her past cancer publicly and says she is only now sharing the news that it has returned as she has felt pressure from keeping the diagnosis to herself. However, she has said she does not want to be seen as 'frail' by fans or those around her. Opening up to HELLO! Magazine, the TV icon said she was tired of hiding her health issues from those she had not confided in, and explained: "I can't lie; I can't keep making up stories. It gets to a stage, after a year and a half, when keeping a secret becomes more of a burden than anything else."

Sharing her concerns about her diagnosis, she continued: "My worry is that people will start seeing me as a frail little thing, and that if [the news] got out, I'd be judged, or people would change the way they are with me, or that I wouldn't work," she says. "I'm a journalist; I don't want to be 'the story'. I don't want to be interviewing someone and for them to say to me: 'I'm so sorry.'"

Trisha took to Instagram to share news about her diagnosis - and to highlight her new interview about it. Sharing photos from her HELLO! interview that showed off her short hair, Trisha wrote: "Doing this is tough. .. I’ve been keeping a difficult secret for 19 months now, but like my new hairstyle – I can’t hide it anymore."

Trisha explained that she was given her new diagnosis when she suffered a horrifying fall at home. She slipped while running upstairs and fell, injuring herself and she was left in excruciating pain and unable to move. After being stuck on the floor for three hours, she was able to alert neighbours who called an ambulance. Her husband, Allen, then met her at hospital where they learned the worrying news.

Allen recalled to the magazine: "She was in acute pain... Then a young resident – like a junior doctor – came in and said: 'Oh, it looks as though you broke your femur and smashed your right hip, which is full of cancer cells. And you have a tumour. It doesn't look good." Trisha then added: "That was the first I heard that the cancer had come back. And the first thing I asked was: 'Am I going to die?'"

The announcement was met with a wall of support from Trisha's followers, who rushed to send her positive messages. One follower wrote in response to her post: "You look beautiful Trisha. Only wish this image was accompanying brighter news. Sending you strength, ease and all you need to get through this again." Another typed: "Oh no, oh no - I am heartbroken for you and the family. Stay strong and positive, you look beautiful." And a further follower commented: "Love you so much as you know, you inspire me every single day."

During her previous cancer fight, Trisha revealed she discovered she had the disease while seeking treatment following a running injury. She was diagnosed in 2008 when she went to get an X-Ray. She recounted in 2020: "The lady doing the x-ray asked me if I’d been for an x-ray before. I said 'A mammogram; does that count?' She asked when it was and I couldn’t remember so she looked it up and said: '2001. Due for another one.' She booked me in and things went pretty quickly from then. So thank God for running."

She also credited with running for keeping her upbeat during her past cancer fight. She said: "I went running every day, even if I just staggered for an hour or so. Even if I didn’t feel like doing it. First thing I did when I got out of bed was put my running gear on, so it wasn’t a question of not feeling like it. Nine times out of ten I did not feel like it, but I knew at 17–20 minutes that I’d get that kick. So I thought: 'What’s 17 minutes?' The only time I didn’t run was after my second operation and I was going mad – I was looking outside dreaming of running. Honestly, I could not have got through treatment without it."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTubeand Threads.