Pop singer Sophie Ellis-Bextor was among those attending the 77th British Academy Film Awards on Sunday where she performed in front of the stars of hit film Saltburn

Sophie Ellis-Bextor drew gasps as she hit the 2024 BAFTA Film Award red carpet in a dazzling sequin and lace dress.

The 44-year-old singer will be performing at the 77th British Academy Film Awards - which were held at the Royal Festival Hall in London on Sunday night. Sophie has seen her 2001 song Murder on the Dancefloor thrust back into the public consciousness after it was featured in a climactic scene in the 2023 thriller film Saltburn.

The star promised a dazzling show, saying she had hired a string of backing dancers to perform with her at the glitzy awards show. But before showing off her pipes, the star drew approval from fans and fashion experts as she arrived at the ceremony in floolength black gown featuring lace and sequin details.

The star's dress was by Antonio Riva - and she paired it with Roger Vivier heels and Swarovski and Katherine James jewellery. Speaking of her outfit with Vogue, the singer said: “The most amazing thing about clothes is they put you in the right mood. You want things that move with you – and sequins dance a lot... My day job is having a lot of fun, so I always lean into it… Now it’s time to push it."

Image: Matt Baron/BEI/REX/Shutterstock) Matt Baron/BEI/REX/Shutterstock) Image: Getty Images for BAFTA) Getty Images for BAFTA)

The ensemble was a hit with fans who flooded social media with complements. One fan on X gushed over the outfit, declaring it the winning look of the night. They posted: “Everyone else can go home now. Sophie Ellis-Bextor has won at the BAFTAs.” While another branded her outfit: “Flawless”.

Film fans will be in for a treat as Sophie is set to sing her classic song in front of the biggest and brightest names in film. She has also shared her surprise over the fact that her song has attracted renewed attention - rocketing back up the charts to Number 2 in the UK and giving her the first Hot 100 record of her career in the USA.

Speaking to Deadline about the film that has propelled her back into the public consciousness, Sophie gushed: “I think it’s amazing. I think Emerald Fennell is an amazing writer and director. I felt very flattered when she approached me and I think soundtracks are such an integral part of the film.

“I just thought ‘what an amazing club to be part of’. Awesome. I have seen it all the way through once. I loved it, though. And I’ve watched it with my mum and my eldest boy and my husband and my brother and we all loved it very much. I was blown away. I thought it was such a great movie.”

Saltburn was nominated for five awards as part of the ceremony - with lead star Barry Keoghan, who dances naked to Murder on the Dancefloor in the film, up for Best Actor. The 77th British Academy Film Awards - hosted by David Tennant - will air on BBC One and via BBC iPlayer at 7pm on Sunday 18 February 2024.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads.