A new brain teaser has been leaving people scratching their heads, as they struggle to find the slippery crocodile hiding among the multitude of iguanas perched on branches

You'll need 20/20 vision if you want to solve this tricky brain teaser.

Keeping your brain healthy is just as important as working out the rest of your body, but it's a little more difficult to do. You can't hit the gym to give your brain the exercise it needs, but there is another way you can keep your mind as active as it needs to be - puzzles. Brain teasers and optical illusions are fantastic ways to help boost your cognitive function and your problem-solving skills, and they only take a few minutes to complete.

So if you're looking for a way to give your brain a workout today, why not try out this puzzle?

Image: Bright Side) Bright Side)

Take a look at the image above. You'll notice there are dozens of wide-eyed iguanas that all appear to be perched on branches. But somewhere among the reptiles is another member of the family that doesn't quite fit in - a crocodile. It's your job to locate the odd cold-blooded creature as quickly as you can.

According to Jagran Josh, the sharpest minds will be able to find the crocodile in just five seconds - so get searching! It's trickier than it looks, as the iguanas all have dark green stripes that can be easily confused for the markings on a crocodile, and the different sizes and angles of the other animals make it difficult to see beyond them.

Don't worry if it takes you longer than five seconds, though. The more you practice with brain teasers the quicker you'll get at being able to find the hidden items. Got it now? We're going to give you the answer very soon, so don't scroll any further if you're still searching.

Image: Bright Side) Bright Side)

The crocodile should have been easy to spot, as it was standing upright on the lefthand side of the picture. It has a different face and shape from all the iguanas, but the colours are so similar it blends in with the rest of the scene well. Did you manage to find it? Let us know in the comments, and don't forget to tell us how quickly you did it!

If you want to try your hand at other brain teasers, why not give some of these a go? This one asks you to find three cats lurking in the family garden scene, while this one claims only 2% of people can find the hidden turtle in the messy bedroom.

There are also different types of puzzles you can try, such as this Only Connect question that left the contestants baffled, and this maths equation that is said to be so tricky that only those with the IQ of Albert Einstein can solve it.

Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at yourmirror@trinitymirror.com.