Saltburn's final scene made Sophie Ellis-Bextor's Murder on the Dancefloor fly back into the charts after Barry Keoghan's character danced naked through the estate while the song blasted in the background

Saltburn's Richard E Grant joked he would be stripping off for Sophie Ellis-Bextor's performance of Murder on the Dancefloor at the 2024 Bafta Awards tonight.

The iconic 2001 hit flew back into the charts after it appeared at the end of Saltburn. Fans will remember the iconic scene where Barry's character, Oliver, confidently dances naked through the lavish Saltburn estate while Murder on the Dancefloor plays in the background.

With how popular both the movie and song got (again), it's no surprise Sophie is taking to the stage on Sunday night to get all the stars on their feet dancing to the track. While everyone sings along, Richard - who played Sir James in the film - will be getting ready to strip down to his birthday suit.

Ahead of the ceremony, The Mirror spoke to the actor about what it was like filming the shocking movie. Richard joked: "We were in the nude most of the time. Tonight when Sophie Ellis-Bextor performs, all the cast will be taking their clothes off in the stalls."

Image: Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer) Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer)

Murder on the Dancefloor was released over 20 years ago but came back to life in Emerald Fennell's film. The 2001 hit was in the top five most-played tracks in the world earlier last month. Murder on the Dancefloor's success has led to Sophie landing a new deal with her old record label.

Saltburn follows the journey of Oliver Quick, played by Barry, who is struggling to fit in at Oxford University. But he soon forms a connection with aristocrat Felix Catton, played by Jacob Elordi. Felix invites Oliver to his family estate, Saltburn, for a summer that he will never forget.

Once at the estate, things take a dark turn as Oliver grows more and more infatuated with Felix and his lifestyle. Speaking to GQ magazine about the film and her chosen ending, Emerald recently explained: "It was always going to be a walk, the exact inverse of Felix's tour [earlier in the film]. But a naked walk.

Image: Youtube/MGMStudios) Youtube/MGMStudios)

"And then about halfway through filming, I just felt it wouldn't have the evil glee. It had to be an act of desecration, an act of territory taking. It's ownership. 'This is f**king mine. I do whatever I want'. It's not going to be, like, the forever victory. It's sort of a depressing victory, even for Oliver. But in that moment, we need to love him. I like the audience to be complicit."

Bafta nominated Barry said earlier this evening that recreating his naked dance to the song in Saltburn “may be a bit much” for the Bafta ceremony as she arrived on the red carpet in London.

When asked about Barry re-doing it, Sophie told the PA news agency on the Bafta red carpet: “It might be a bit much for him first thing but we have had a moment together already… I was lucky enough to meet all the Saltburn cast back in November in LA at the premiere, so it’d be nice to see them again because I think what they’ve achieved with the film is wonderful so I just want to toast that.” She also said that she “felt very complimented” by director Emerald Fennell choosing her 2001 song for the film.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .