The former EastEnders star pulled up at Pickle Cottage in the luxury camper van after

Joe Swash shows off £59,000 motorhome as Stacey Solomon says he's done this 'to spite me'

Joe Swash has shown off his new wheels - a seven-berth motorhome worth nearly £60,000 - after making a deal with Stacey Solomon.

The former EastEnders actor, 42, shared a video to his Instagram stories of himself picking out a camper van at a dealership in the Midlands. As he surveyed the forecourt, he said: “A deal’s a deal, I went clubbing and in return she said we could go camping if I got ourselves a motorhome. So I’ve come all the way to Birmingham to River Motor Homes to pick up one of these. She’s gonna do her nut when she sees me driving up the drive in one of these. OMG.”

The van that Joe ended up choosing - and it is not clear whether he has bought, borrowed or hired it - is a 2022 Fiat Chausson C656 camper van, which has a listing on AutoTrader for £59,000. The ad says that the vehicle is "designed for large families...it offers each member of the tribe comfort and space: for sleeping, for eating (two dinettes), for taking a shower in a very practical bathroom."

Image: Instagram/ @staceysolomon) Instagram/ @staceysolomon) Image: Instagram/ @staceysolomon) Instagram/ @staceysolomon)

Between them, Joe and wife Stacey, 34, have six children. Joe has son Harry, 15, with his ex-partner Emma Sophocleous, and Stacey has two teenage sons, Zachary, 15, and Leighton, 11, from previous relationships. They share three youngsters. Rex, three, Rose, two and daughter Belle, who turned 1 last week.

As Joe predicted, Stacey wasn't overly impressed to see the camper van trundling up their driveway. She posted a video of Joe driving the vehicle up the meandering driveway of Pickle Cottage, and the kids excitedly running over to him once he had stopped near their home. She wrote: “OMFG note to self. Never underestimate Joe’s ability to make something just to spite me.”

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will auto-play soon 8 Cancel Play now

In a following video, Stacey could be heard telling Joe, "You are out of order." Laughing, he replied, "Come on, the kids love me!" before giving excited Rex and Rose a mini tour of their new pad on wheels. He added that he was so excited.

Stacey wrote on the video: "He’s so happy with himself. Honestly, it will be an adventure and I’m excited for the kids but omg I’m genuinely scared."

The couple first started dating in 2016 after meeting on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! and got married in 2022. Stacey made Joe agree to have a child-free night out clubbing for their Valentine's Day date, and shared glimpses of it with fans on Instagram. Loose Women panellist Stacey rocked a sequinned baby pink minidress and a simple 'S' pendant necklace, and .Joe looked suave in a simple black t-shirt, black trousers and a belt.

Image: INSTAGRAM) INSTAGRAM) Image: staceysolomon / Instagram) staceysolomon / Instagram)

On the table behind them were a few presents Joe bought for his wife, including a Tom Ford candle called 'F***ing Fabulous'. Not long after posting the snaps, Stacey took to her Stories to joke about the couple's struggles when it came to enjoying a date night.

She wrote: "I am already regretting making this night happen though. Joe's tipsy and my feet hurt. We haven't even left," she said and added a few laughing emojis.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .