From supermarkets to our homes, here’s how we can stop good food going in the bin

Did you know around a third of all the food produced around the world ends up going to waste?

This isn’t just bad for our pockets, it’s also bad for the planet. Not only is the food itself wasted, but all the water, resources and energy used to make it is wasted too.

That’s why Tesco is working hard to reduce food waste both in their stores and in our homes, helping to both save money and protect the environment.

Since 2009, in the UK Tesco has sent no food to landfill, and in 2013 the retailer became the first to publicly report on food waste.

The supermarket is working hard to meet its ambition of halving food waste across its own operations by 2025, which means finding ways to cut down on waste well before our shopping bags make it through the front door.

Working closely with farmers and suppliers means Tesco can monitor and manage bumper crops.

During the heatwave last summer, kilo boxes of fresh strawberries and cherries filled Tesco shelves, avoiding unnecessary waste on farms and giving great value to customers.

Image: Getty) Getty)

Then there’s the Perfectly Imperfect range which embraces ‘wonky’ fruit and veg, fresh produce that’s just as tasty as others, just a little more misshapen.

On the shelves, Tesco has swapped ‘use by’ for ‘best before’ dates on many own brand dairy products, allowing customers to use their own judgement and save good food from being thrown away.

Meanwhile, ‘best before’ dates have been completely removed from a range of fruits and vegetables to also help customers reduce food waste at home.

You’ll also never spot buy one get one free deals on the most perishable items such as salads that are unlikely to get eaten in time.

Finally, ‘reduced to clear’ aisles have been replaced with ‘Reduced in Price, Just as Nice’ areas in over 300 stores, with clear signage to help customers seek out yellow-stickered items.

Four clever ways to cut food waste at home The average household throws out a staggering £1,000 worth of food each year, so Tesco is on a mission to reduce waste by helping us make easy changes at home. Try these handy tips to ensure good food doesn’t end up in your bin. 1. Get into the ‘use up’ habit Make the most of what you’ve got with Tesco’s clever online What Can I Make With? recipe finder tool. Whether it’s a few slices of leftover bread, the odd onion or milk from the fridge, simply type in the ingredients you want to use up, and the recipe generator will suggest recipes to help stop food going to waste. 2. Be savvy with storage Store lettuce and spinach with a paper towel to absorb excess moisture and stop leaves going soggy. Wrap cheese in baking paper before refrigerating to prevent it going hard or - worse - sweaty. Keep bananas separate from other fruit so they stay yellow for longer. Top tip, store an apple with your potatoes and the gas it produces will prevent spuds from going bad. 3. Take stock, before you shop Research shows that nine in 10 of us don’t always know what’s in our kitchen. Checking what’s already in our fridge and cupboards will make our trip to the shop more efficient – and our money go further. 4. Make friends with your freezer As well as fresh meat and cooked leftovers, did you know it’s also possible to freeze many different types of food? This includes bacon, bananas, whole coffee beans, homemade cakes and biscuits, berries, fresh herbs, grated cheese, soup, whipped cream and even baked beans for several months to be used as and when you need them.

To find out more, visit tesco.com/reduce-food-waste