Escape to the Country star Jules Hudson has paused his TV presenting career to pursue a lifelong passion after admitting that he was "burnt out"

Escape to the Country star Jules Hudson has paused his TV presenting career to pursue a lifelong passion after admitting that he was "burnt out".

The 54-year-old BBC star has followed a path that will give him skills for an entirely different career, one which he has dreamed of for many years, and will give him a chance to reset after a tough schedule of filming over recent years. Jules is now on an "intense" course for 12 weeks, with the blessing of his wife Tania, who is keen that he follows his passion.

Speaking to Lyme Regis & Bridport News, Jules detailed the reasons why he has decided to postpone his TV career for now. He said: “Late last year, I realised I was quite burnt out and needed a creative and emotional reset. It was a family discussion, and we are investing in our future."

Image: No credit) No credit)

Jules, who also presents on BBC's Countryfile, is working on a 12-week furniture making course in Lyme Regis, Dorset, which has been described as "intense". So that he can complete the training at the Boat Building Academy and Furniture Making School, Jules is having to stay with relatives on the Dorset coast.

He had previously had a taste of what the school offers after visiting the academy while filming Escape to the Country in 2012, and "fell in love" with the courses and has harboured an ambition to enrol since then. Jules already enjoys saving old furniture and breathing new life into them and he said about the course: "It stuck in my mind, and I always wanted to return. But when you have a family and are working, life just moves on, and you go with it." Will Reed, director of the Boat Building Academy said of his new star pupil: “Jules is an absolute pleasure to have around – so friendly and enthusiastic."

Jules said that he needed a "reset" and this was perfect and he is now encouraging others to push their boundaries and follow their dreams in order to enhance their mental health. While he is pursuing furniture making, Jules said that he has no plans of leaving Escape to the Country, a show that he has presented since 2007.

The TV presenter recenI don’t think you ever quite prepare yourself for it. I haven’t experienced a huge personal loss like that in my life. I’m lucky to have got through to my 50s before having to confront these things."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .