Police say the mother accidentally ran over the boy after making him walk home from school after getting in trouble

A woman has been charged after accidentally running over her son with her car, according to police. Sarai Rachel James, 27, from Alabama allegedly ran over her seven-year-old son after she made him walk home from school after getting in trouble.

Police say that James picked up her son from school in Boaz around 3.30PM on February 9 and learned from the boy’s principal that he had gotten in trouble at school that morning. It is reported that, as punishment, the mother made the boy walk home from school with her following behind when she accidentally ran him over.

It is understood that James had initially picked her son up but after learning about the trouble stopped the car and made the boy - who has not been named - get out. She told him he would have to make his own way home which was around eight blocks.

READ MORE: Sign up to Mirror US's SMS updates for the latest straight from the newsroom

The incident happened after the boy tried to get back in the car and the mother did not realise, pulling him down and accidentally driving. James drove beside her son or trailed him for a few blocks, but when she slowed down the boy tried to grab the door handle of the car, Boaz Chief of Police Michael Abercrombie told McClatchy News.

Image: Marshall County Sheriff’s Office) Marshall County Sheriff’s Office)

It is thought that while she was unaware her son was under the vehicle she accelerated and her son was pulled under the car, which ran over him with a rear tire, according to police. While the police force acknowledged that the mother accidentally ran over the boy, they said he never would have been in that situation if she had not decided to punish him.

“She may not have realised he was doing that,” Abercrombie said. The seven-year-old was taken to the University of Alabama hospital with abrasions on his back and side of the head. "God watched over him,” Abercombie said.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US

Image: City of Boaz) City of Boaz)

James, 27, was arrested and charged with aggravated child abuse. She was released on a $50,000 bond three days later, according to jail records. It is believed the woman is currently barred from having any contact with her son after the incident.

Another 53-year-old woman who was in the vehicle at the time of the incident was charged with endangering the welfare of a child, a misdemeanour. She was released on a $500 bond.