Brits have worked hard to keep their energy usage down but in the hustle and bustle of daily life, it can be easy to overlook simple mistakes that can bump up bills

Households have been warned of hidden "mistakes" in their home which add around £196 to their energy bills each year.

It's no secret that energy costs have skyrocketed over the last few years and although they are on their way down, they are still significantly higher than they were pre-pandemic. Brits have worked hard to keep their energy usage down however in the hustle and bustle of daily life, it can be easy to overlook simple mistakes around the house that, over time, can significantly add to your charges.

To help shed some light on these costly mistakes, Andrew Haydon from Simply Plastics highlights what you should be looking out for and offers cheap and straightforward tips that can save you some cash.

Dirty tumble dryer vents - £30 a year

According to Simply Plastics, one of the most common and costly mistakes people make is failing to clean their tumble dryer vents. The average 9kg dryer in the UK will use around 4.23kwh of energy per cycle which costs around £1.30, but if your dryer vents or filters are full of lint this can make your machine run far less efficiently, meaning it will take longer to dry your clothes and cost you more in the long run.

Andrew noted that it might not seem a lot, but if it takes an extra 30 minutes to dry your clothes - this will cost an extra 30p with every load. If you use your machine twice a week for a whole year this means you’re paying out an extra £31.20 a year when you don’t need to.

He added: “Cleaning out your tumble dryer is an easy fix that can make a huge difference to your energy bills, not to mention a build-up of lint is a major fire risk. To stop it from building up, try to empty your machine of lint every time you use it. That way you can keep your machine running at max capacity every time.”

Ignoring draughts - £35 a year

Homes in the UK already lose a lot of heat through areas like windows, but poor window seals or large gaps under doors can make this worse, letting in cool air that means you end up cranking the heating on higher for longer. Andrews says it can be "easy" to ignore the odd draught in a door or window, but if you end up having to leave your heating on for an extra hour to make up for the heat loss, you’re looking at an extra 9.7p a day, or £35 a year.

He said: "Fixing draughts can be a cheap and easy fix that will make all the difference to your heating bills. You can buy cheap draught excluders for under £20, but you can also DIY one using an old towel rolled up at the base of your door.

"When it comes to windows, you can easily fix most draughts using foam tape or even sticking plastic sheeting up to stop hot air from escaping. For a more permanent solution, secondary glazing can add an extra layer of insulation without being an eyesore and usually costs around £27 for an average window.”

Leaving the lights on - £83 a year

Many Brits are guilty of this but the cost of leaving lights on in unoccupied rooms can quickly rack up. For example, if you leave a 100-watt light bulb on for eight hours a day, you’re wasting 0.8 kWh of electricity, which will set you back 23p. According to Andrew, over the space of a year, this will cost you an extra £83 a year per bulb.

He added: “If you still struggle to remember to turn off the lights, you could always install motion sensors. These will turn lights on and off automatically when someone enters or a room is left empty for a while.”

Overfilling Your Kettle - £17 a year

Andrew noted that many of us don’t really think about how much water we use when filling the kettle, but overfilling your kettle every day can add up. An average mug of water will cost you around 1.09p to boil, while filling your kettle to its full capacity will cost around 5.8p. This means if you boil a full kettle for one cup of tea you’ll be wasting 4.71p each time, which works out at £17 a year.

Andrew said: “When making your next cuppa, make sure to only use the water you need. If you do accidentally overfill your kettle, just fill a thermos with the excess hot water. That way you can make your next cuppa without having to turn the kettle on again.”

Not descaling your appliances - £31 a year

Andrew said this issue occurred mainly in areas with hard water but it is something everyone should look into as build-up of limescale in your appliances is pretty commonplace. Limescale deposits in your washing machine, dishwasher, shower and kettle will make it harder to heat up or transfer water to where you need it making them run around 10% less efficiently, costing you an extra £31.38 per year. Andrew said: "This is why it’s important to regularly descale your appliances especially if you live in a hard water area. Not only will your appliances run less efficiently, but they're more likely to break down, leaving you with a larger bill.”

Breakdown of the added costs of limescale over a year: