Strictly Come Dancing star Amanda Abbington told her fiancé Jonathan Goodwin to 'f**k off' as they were seen bickering in an online video posted to social media

Strictly Come Dancing star Amanda Abbington was embroiled in a bitter war of words with her fiance Jonathan Goodwin as she was heard telling him to 'f*** off' on social media.

Amanda and former Britain's Got Talent star Jonathan filmed a video introducing an adorable new addition to their household - a new puppy called Lennon. Filming the video in selfie mode, Amanda was seen cradling their new puppy as Jonathan declared that they have too many dogs.

The couple already have four pooches. Jonathan asked Amanda's followers if they would be willing to take one on, which led to an argument for all to see.

Image: amanda_abbington74/instagram) amanda_abbington74/instagram) Image: amanda_abbington74/instagram) amanda_abbington74/instagram)

The video then took another twist after the Sherlock actress looked at herself on screen and told viewers that she looked like the 1970's agony aunt Majorie Proops. She told viewers that she "remembers who [she] looks like now". Jonathan then asked, "who?", to which Amanda replied: "Do you remember Marjorie Proops, the old agony aunt from the late 70s and early 80s?"

In a bid to wind her up, Jonathan then responded: "I was born in 1980." And this clearly triggered Amanda as it reminded her of their age gap as he's eight years younger than her. Hitting back at his comment, she told him: "Why don't you f**k off? You keep reminding me that you're considerably younger than I am."

She added: "Anyway, we just wanted to say hello and check in. Is everybody OK? We're really good, we've got four dogs, life's lovely, and spring is springing." Amanda chimed in: "But if you've got this horrible cold and cough, it's awful isn't it?"

And it seems Amanda could not let go of her frustration towards her beau as the bickering continued. Jonathan continued: "We both had it." to which Amanda jumped in and said: "Um, it's not a competition."

Amanda hit headlines last year after suddenly dropping out of Strictly Come Dancing following a series of rumoured rows with her partner Giovanni Pernice.

But her stand against Giovanni has led to her receiving death threats since speaking out about the alleged feud. Despite the allegations, the BBC decided to not investigate Giovanni. It is believed Amanda needed therapy following the "behaviour she was exposed to."

A source close to Amanda told The Sun: "There is a feeling that the recordings will lift the lid on what really goes on behind the scenes on Strictly. Things in rehearsals can become very tense." They added that Giovanni could be "incredibly full-on" as he is a "perfectionist".

But her alleged traumatic experience has done little to ruin her relationship with the other professionals. On the back of news that Johannes Radebe's memoir is to be made into a film, she rushed to congratulate the TV star. Taking to social media she wrote: "Glorious news."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok,Snapchat,Instagram,Twitter,Facebook,YouTubeandThreads