Grease, Saturday Night Fever and Pulp Fiction John Travolta turned 70 years old on February 18 – what's his career been like over 30 years?

It's another Hollywood birthday and Grease star John Travolta has turned 70.

Known for striking a pose in Saturday Night Fever and the iconic Pulp Fiction, John has been in showbusiness for 30 years. With his birthday celebrations on Sunday, February 18, here The Mirror takes a look back through some of the actor's awkward moments.

From kissing a male co-star to his ever-changing hairstyle, Travolta has certainly had his fair share of strange run-ins over the years. He married the late actress Kelly Preston all the way back in 1991 and had three children, their son Jett passed away in 2009.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US .

READ MORE: John Travolta reveals terrifying moment which left him fearing he was 'going to die'

Kissing Scarlett Johansson

Image: WireImage) WireImage) Image: WireImage) WireImage)

It was in 2015 that John wrapped his arms around Scarlett Johansson, giving her a peck – with the whole thing caught on camera, proving for awkward viewing. The less-than generous snap showed an unimpressed Johansson after the surprise smooch.

She was later forced to clarify that there was "nothing strange, creepy or inappropriate" about John's kiss following fallout when the pictures were published. Scarlett said the awkward images were very "unfortunate" and that she was fine with the whole ordeal.

"The image that is circulating is an unfortunate still-frame from a live-action encounter that was very sweet and totally welcome," Johansson told the Associated Press. "That still photo does not reflect what preceded and followed if you see the moment live."

Another kiss... with Kirk Douglas

Years before his awkward run-in with Johansson, John was caught on camera kissing another Hollywood legend in November 2007. But this time it was the late Kirk Douglas. Aged 90 at the time, Travolta planted a kiss on the actor, clearly taking him by surprise.

Another awkward photograph shows the moment Douglas went to shake John's hand after presenting him with an award. He clearly wasn't expecting it as the snaps show Kirk looking extremely confused by the ordeal wide his eyes wide open.

Christmas with Olivia Newton-John

Image: CBS via Getty Images) CBS via Getty Images)

The pair joined forces in 2012 for the first time since Two of a Kind in 1983. They were creating a Christmas album titled This Christmas. Songs came complete with an extremely awkward music video, landing terrible reviews and 81st in the Billboard charts.

Despite this, Olivia and John had enjoyed a 40-year friendship after starring in Grease in 1978. The talented pair stole our hearts playing Sandy and Danny and publicly supported each other for decades after - through the good times and the bad as they endured divorce, ill health and tragedy.

Loyal John was one of the first celebrities to pay tribute to the beloved actress when she passed away back in 2022. "From the first moment I saw you, I was yours," John told his beloved friend in a heartfelt statement released on social media.

Commercial catastrophe

After starring in Hollywood films and becoming a household name, fans were slightly confused when he featured in a truly bizarre advert for a Brazilian rum company. In the bonkers commercial, John is repeatedly recognised on a beach, before breaking into a dance.

What made the advert even stranger was that he was clearly superimposed in the video and wasn't actually on-set. The weird green screen commercial didn't go down well with fans, with some wondering why he'd taken the job – and his dancing was odd too.

Near-death experience

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

John revealed the scary moment he thought his life was about to end after a plane he was traveling in had serious problems. The Hollywood star opened up on the mishap in the skies as he discussed the very similar plot for the Disney+ short The Shepherd.

The movie tells the story of a Royal Air Force pilot who suffers total electrical failure - something the Oscar winner had previously experience in real life. The Resevoir Dogs actor explained how the incident occurred while he was travelling in a corporate jet over Washington DC, and was one of the reasons he had connected with the script.

Speaking to Variety, the star, who has his own pilot's license, said: "I actually experienced a total electrical failure, not in a Vampire, but in a corporate jet over Washington D.C. So when I read [Frederick Forsyth's book of the same name], it resonated even more because of this experience I had personally had."

He continued: "I knew what it felt like to absolutely think you’re going to die. I had two good jet engines, but I had no instruments, no electric, nothing. And I thought it was over. There’s very few projects I’ve ever been involved with that were locked in here [his heart]. I wanted to have a destiny with it for 30 years."

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.