Actress Imogen Boorman, who played Vanessa Morgan, has been placed on the sex offender's list after stripping naked in a pub, laying on the bar drinking straight from the beer taps, and hitting a punter in the face

Former Coronation Street star Imogen Boorman has been added to the sex offenders register after admitting to behaving in a threatening or abusive manner, public indecency, and stealing alcohol.

The mum-of-three, 52, who had a recurring role in the ITV soap as Freshcos shop worker Vanessa Morgan in the 1990s, was arrested last May after a drunken rampage at the Picture House pub in the Scottish town of Montrose, where she lives. The actress, who also appeared in Hellbound: Hellraiser II, Casualty and Lovejoy, pleaded guilty to seven charges in total and is due to be sentenced in April.

At Forfar Sheriff Court, it was heard that Boorman entered the bar at 10pm and “simply smiled” when asked for her order before removing all of her clothing, leaving her completely naked. She is then said to have climbed on to the bar and laid down, and began drinking straight from the draught beer taps.

As she lay on the bar, the court was told she took the hands of a man and placed them on to her naked breasts and sexually assaulted him before spray him in the face with a draught juice gun. Boorman is said to have then left the bar area and went to the pub's dining section where she sexually assaulted the same man by dropping to her knees and trying to pull down his trousers “in a sexual manner.”

Four police officers were dispatched to the pub with two female officers trying to reclothe the drunken star. The court also heard that after she arrived at the police station in Dundee, she assaulted one of the constables and grabbed her arm, causing scratching and reddening.

The booze Boorman spilled, spat or drank is said to have tallied up to £321.86. Boorman admitted stealing alcohol from the bar, behaving in a threatening or abusive manner and public indecency. She also pleaded guilty to charges of assaulting and sexually assaulting the customer and resisting police and assaulting a PC.

Boorman's solicitor said that his client was "extremely embarrassed and remorseful" but she was now "doing well" and has a "working diagnosis of complex PTSD".

The sheriff deferred sentencing to April 2 for reports and told Boorman: “I can see you hung your head as that narrative was being read out. No doubt it tortures you to have to appear and listen to what was your behaviour back then. I’m very delighted to hear from your solicitor that you have made significant progress in addressing the alcohol issue that was no doubt behind these extraordinary, bizarre events.”

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram,Twitter, Facebook,YouTubeand Threads.