TikTok star Queenzzielocthevoice, real name Teresa Smith, has died at the age of 48 after a battle with ovarian cancer, her daughter confirmed in a GoFundMe post

TikTok star Teresa 'Queenzzielocthevoice' Smith has sadly passed away at the age of 48 after a long fight with ovarian cancer.

Teresa became famous on TikTok when she sang Billie Eilish's song What Was I Made For? Her daughter, Yolundria Rooks, shared the sad news on a GoFundMe page, saying: "It is with a heavy heart to announce that my mother The Icon, The Diva, Miss Teresa Smith also known as Queezielocthevoice" has suddenly passed away . Teresa has been loved by millions of family, friends and followers."

Sadly, the cancer spread from her ovaries to her lungs, which led to her passing. The popular star died at home surrounded by her loved ones. The family hopes to take her back to Macon, GA, so she can be buried next to her son, Josiah Smith, who was only 15 when he passed away.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US .

READ MORE: Snoop Dogg's brother Bing Worthington dies at 44 as rapper posts emotional tribute

Image: Queenzzielocthevoice/Tiktok) Queenzzielocthevoice/Tiktok) Image: Queenzzielocthevoice/Tiktok) Queenzzielocthevoice/Tiktok)

The family is asking for donations to help move Teresa's body. Also, Yolanda explained that she will have to look after her younger siblings after their mum's death. She wrote: "I, as the eldest child will now be taking on full responsibility of all my younger siblings so anything that is donated beyond the funeral cost and expenses will be invested in them, their needs, and their future."

Yolanda also asked for prayers for her family during this sad time. She said: "As I have to prepare and get ready to send my Queen home, I just want to thank all those who loved my mom and all of her followers for supporting her. Love you all God Bless!"

Image: Queenzzielocthevoice/Tiktok) Queenzzielocthevoice/Tiktok) Image: Queenzzielocthevoice/Tiktok) Queenzzielocthevoice/Tiktok)

TMZ reports that Teresa had been dealing with her illness for a while but kept it mostly private. She told her family in November 2023 when the pain got too much and she had to go to the hospital.

Teresa was a shining light for many and even made a lovely video to support LGBTQ+ people. In the video, she sang beautifully, saying, "Be who you are for your pride." Her viral songs and videos brought comfort and joy to many; she will surely be missed.

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.