Taylor Swift is continuing her Eras Tour concerts Down Under as she once again took to the stage at the MCG arena in Melbourne, Australia

Hundreds of women were forced to use male toilets during Taylor Swift's latest Eras Tour concert in Australia.

Fans packed the MCG arena in Melbourne over the weekend for another sold out event as the Blank Space hitmaker continues her ever-popular gig series Down Under. But it wasn't the star's singing that was topic of conversation after a bizarre blunder left hundreds of the performer's female followers desperately waiting to use the toilet.

Footage showed the near-empty men's bathrooms as women lined up inside the venue two hours before Swift was due on stage. "At Taylor Swift, the boys have to share their toilets with the girls," one fan wrote on a video shared all over social media on Sunday.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US .

READ MORE: Taylor Swift to 'enjoy romantic holiday with Travis Kelce' on break from Australian tour

Image: Getty Images for TAS Rights Mana) Getty Images for TAS Rights Mana)

Another uploaded a video of 300 women waiting to use the toilet at around 5pm, two hours before Taylor's first song. The gig still went ahead as planned despite the mammoth lines to use the bathroom, but fans couldn't help but rant about the ordeal.

It comes after Taylor looks set to 'enjoy romantic holiday with boyfriend Travis Kelce in Queensland' during a break from her Australian tour. NFL star Travis sent rumour mills into overdrive that this could be happening on his podcast. The Super Bowl hero dropped a huge hint he could be packing his bags and joining the pop sensation Down Under on last week's episode of his New Heights podcast.

He teased he would 'venture to an island real soon' with the best ones being south of the US. Now fans are convinced the duo will escape to The Great Barrier Reef before the You Belong with Me singer's Sydney shows.

Taylor and her boyfriend Travis Kelce are "excited for the future." The duo is said to be adjusting to a "new reality" after his triumphant Super Bowl win, with it claimed that the lovebirds "feel happy and excited for what lies ahead". The 34-year-old hitmaker was in attendance at the sporting event earlier this month at the Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas to support her boyfriend Travis Kelce, also 34. Taylor cheered on Travis and the Kansas City Chiefs when they won 25-22 against the San Francisco 49ers at the event.

Meanwhile Taylor has given extraordinary insight into a romance with an ex. She revealed she was left lonely during her six year relationship with ex-boyfriend Joe Alwyn.

Taylor and Joe broke up in early 2023 after six years together, a few months before Taylor settled down with Kansas City Chiefs player Travis Kelce. The split from actor Alwyn came as a shock, but Taylor has now hinted that the romance wasn't always rosy as she revealed she wrote some of her latest material whilst being 'lonely' during quarantine for the COVID-19 lockdown, at which time she lived with Joe.

Performing in Melbourne, the singer introduced song Betty, as she told fans that she painted herself as a "ghostly Victorian lady" before joking that it took her away from being a "lonely millennial woman covered in cat hair, drinking my weight in white wine."

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.