The Duchess of Sussex finished off her evening look for her final public appearance at the Invictus Games One Year to Go Dinner by accessorising with a diamond tennis necklace

Meghan Markle has worn many chic outfits during her three-day Canada trip, with her final appearance no different.

The Duchess of Sussex stood proudly by her husband's side as she wore an off-the-shoulder green dress and wore her dark hair slicked back into a up do for the Invictus Games banquet at the Vancouver Convention Center on Friday. Finishing off her elegant evening look was a diamond tennis necklace, that is worth £12,500 from luxury jewellery maker Logan Hollowell.

The intricate jewellery design features water droplet shaped diamonds throughout in a white gold setting.

READ MORE: Meghan Markle dons off-the-shoulder gown as she and Harry wrap Canada trip with luxury banquet



Describing the stunning necklace on its website, Logan Hollowell writes: "14k gold and water drop white natural or lab created diamond necklace starting at 5 cts for 14-16". A handmade masterpiece of mirrored pear shapes of likeness and size."

It's not known whether the necklace was a gift from Prince Harry or not, but Meghan typically wears jewellery given from her husband of six years. Meghan has previously been seen with a sapphire ring on her pinky finger, which is worth a reported £15,000 from luxury jewellery designer Jessica MCormack. Jessica McCormack’s Signature collection ring is set with a 0.94 carat heart cut sapphire handcrafted in blackened 18k white gold and 18k yellow gold, and the Duchess is believed to have been given it as a 'push present' from her husband after the birth of son Archie in 2019.

The stunning blue jewelled ring isn't the only jewellery gift that Harry is believed to have given his wife as a present for carrying their two children. Meghan also appears to have a 'third wedding band' worn on her ring finger alongside gold banded three-stone engagement ring featuring diamonds from Princess Diana's collection and her gold wedding band.

The Suits actress has also been seen sporting £10,000 diamond earrings at the Lion King premiere in July 2019, which are also believed to be a gift from her husband.

Designer jewellery has blended in well to the Duchess' luxury wardrobe for her Vancouver trip, which included stand out items such as a £1,028 Sentaler cape in a dark camel hue, with shawl collar details, and a belt that cinched her figure in at the waist. She's also been seen in a coordinated ski slopes outfit in black and navy as well as a chic white snow ensemble alongside husband Harry.

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .