Victoria Beckham was left stunned after being questioned on whether she was ready to become a grandmother. The Spice Girl turned fashion designer's son Brooklyn has expressed his wish to have 'at least five' children with wife Nicola Peltz as soon as possible after their six-figure wedding

Victoria Beckham gave a fiery response when quizzed if she's 'excited' to become a grandmother.

The Spice Girl, 49, is mum to sons Brooklym, 24, Cruz, 18, and Romeo, 21, and 12-year-old Harper Beckham. Her eldest child with husband David, Brooklyn tied the knot with billionaire heiress Nicola Peltz in 2022.

Nicola is said to have had a stormy relationship with her in-laws, that erupted in a row over her bridal gown during the run-up to her wedding to Brooklyn in 2022. However the two women are said to have buried the hatchet this year, agreeing to put their difficulties behind them for the sake of Brooklyn.

In an interview with Vogue this week, Victoria was asked if she was 'excited' to become a grandmother.

The mum appeared stunned by the question, hitting back: "What?! Woo. Hang on! I don’t think it’s happening just yet, unless you guys know something that I don’t. It’s not happening just yet,” she insisted.

While Victoria made it clear she's not ready to add grandmother to her list of titles, the fashion designer did recall a conversation she'd had with Vogue supremo Anna Wintour on the subject.

Image: FilmMagic) FilmMagic) Image: Instagram/Victoria Beckham) Instagram/Victoria Beckham)

“The last time I was with Anna, I was like, ‘Anna, what do your grandchildren call you?’ And she said to me, ‘Anna.’ And I was like, well that is very elegant, so maybe I’ll take that route,” Victoria revealed. “But it’s not happening just yet. But, you know, hopefully one day if I am blessed, then that would be wonderful. But we’re not there just yet!”

Brooklyn and his wife Nicola will celebrate their second wedding anniversary in April this year. The pair have both made it clear they want to be young parents. Transformers actress Nicola recently shared her hope of starting a family with Brooklyn in an interview with Cosmopolitan UK.

“I want to have a baby and get right back to work,” she told the magazine. "We definitely want kids. We need a house first, especially because we have so many puppies. Brooklyn really wants kids now, but I want to do a few more things in my career first."

Brooklyn also confirmed he's ready to be a dad in an interview with Access Hollywood, he even said he'd planned how many kids he and Nicola want. “With our conversations she’s like, ‘Oh, I kind of want four or five,’ and then we want to adopt two or three…we want a lot of kids,” he said.

Image: AFP via Getty Images) AFP via Getty Images)

The pair tied the knot in April 2022 at Nicola's family's lavish Palm Beach Estate. The ceremony was attended by both families and a number of celebrity friends including Serena Williams and Eva Longoria.

Following the elaborate multi-million dollar celebrations, it was reported that the ceremony had not been without its complications. Bride Nicola had been due to wear one of Victoria's gowns from her own fashion label before it was revealed at the 11th hour she'd opted for a Valentino creation.

It was also rumoured that Victoria and David were snubbed from the top table at the reception, with the Peltz's breaking tradition to ensure it was only their family members who bagged the best seats.

“The top table was all Peltzs and it really felt as though the Beckhams were not at the forefront,” a source told The Daily Mail. There was a feeling that the wedding was all about the Peltz family, as you can imagine, as it was their house and their daughter and their son making the speeches,” the source added.