Film fans were less than impressed to see football star David Beckham walking the red carpet at the 77th British Academy Film Awards ceremony as he is 'not an actor'

David Beckham was among guests at the 77th British Academy Film Awards ceremony in London on Sunday - much to the confusion of film fans.

The 48-year-old footballer arrived at the Royal Festival Hall in the capital wearing a tuxedo and white shirt, and walked the red carpet in a pair of shiny black shoes. He rubbed shoulders with some of the biggest names in film - as a string of high profile productions and performers were nominated on the night, while Prince William was in attendance in his capacity of BAFTA President. David stopped to chat with the future monarch, with the pair spotted shaking hands and enjoying a catch up.

But David’s inclusion in the ceremony drew scorn from film fans - who argued he had no right to be there. Dave - who has featured in a recent Netflix documentary about his life - was the focus of many unkind comments on social media.

Image: Gareth Cattermole/Getty Images f) Gareth Cattermole/Getty Images f) Image: Getty Images for BAFTA) Getty Images for BAFTA)

He did, however, have a valid excuse for being at the ceremony - as he was there to present one of the prestigious awards. David later appeared on stage to announced the winner of the Outstanding Debut by a British Writer, Director or Producer Award - which was won by Savanah Leaf for the film Earth Mama.

In one particularly blunt message, one film fan raged via X: "Why is that f**king p***k Beckham there? #BAFTAs." Another questioned, a little more politely: "Um, why is David Beckham at the BAFTAs? He's nothing to do with the film industry." And another despairing member of the public vented their anger over the fact that the star refuses to disappear from the spotlight, posting: "Why is David Beckham at the BAFTAS? He’s not a bloody actor, is anywhere a Beckham free zone? And this is from a MU fan, stick to football Dave."

British film Oppenheimer was the most heavily nominated film - raking in an impressive 13 nods for the cast, crew, and writing of the epic biopic. While Saltburn, Barbie, Killers of the Flower Moon and Maestro were other big film projects that were also showered with nominations. The BAFTAs were hosted by Doctor Who icon David Tennant - who opened with a gag-filled monologue. Looking out at the star-studded audience, he said: “Look at you in your tuxedos and fancy dresses, like the opening scenes of Saltburn. Let’s hope it doesn’t end up like the closing scenes of Saltburn.”

He continued: “Judging these awards is like picking a favourite child – difficult, not impossible, but difficult.” His quips went down a storm with the assorted celebrities who were bathed in the Royal Festival Hall to congratulate winners - and commiserate losers. The 52-year-old Doctor Who star had previously hinted he was excited to helm the glitzy awards. He told Variety: “I don’t know what to expect, if I’m honest with you. The whole thing just feels like one of those experiences you say “yes” to because it would be churlish not to. But what an amazing thing to be asked to do. What a privilege.”

Early winners on the night included Christopher Nolan - who won Best Director for his surprise 2023 summer blockbuster, Oppenheimer. Iron Man star Robert Downey Jr. won Best Actor in a Supporting Role for his role in the biopic film - in which he played Lewis Strauss. Meanwhile, Da'Vine Joy Randolph won Best Actress in a Supporting Role for her role as Mary Lamb in The Holdovers. Highlights from the awards are available to watch via BBC iPlayer.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads.