Prince Harry and Meghan Markle seemingly copied Prince William and Kate Middleton's date night spot this week while on their fun-filled Canada trip to promote the Invictus Games

Prince Harry and Meghan Markle seemingly took inspiration from Prince William and Princess Kate's date spot in Vancouver this week.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex recently travelled from Montecito in California to Canada for the Invictus Games Vancouver Whistler 2025's One Year to Go celebrations. While in Vancouver, the couple stepped out several times to meet with fans, participate in demonstrations, and promote the upcoming games.

Also while in Vancouver, Prince Harry participated in a Good Morning America televised chat. And then on the final day of the couple's trip, the Sussexes headed out for a "fun" double date with Michael Bublé and his wife, Luisana Lopilato.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Meghan Markle and Prince Harry 'cannot be trusted', says Prince William

Image: PA) PA)

According to PEOPLE, Chef Vikram Vij of Vij’s in Vancouver, Canada, has said that the foursome attended his restaurant, with him revealing that the Sussexes "were extremely friendly and nice". Chatting to the outlet about the couple's double date, Chef Vikram added: "They came and spoke to the kitchen staff, they were very respectful to let me choose the meal as the chef."

He added that Meghan admitted her love of spicy food before he served up "three or four appetisers". He noted how Michael loved mushrooms and Prince Harry loved the kebabs.

For all the latest news on the Royal Family, read The Mirror's live royal blog.

Image: Instagram) Instagram)

Following the starters, the chef prepared a selection of main dishes for the group. He revealed to the outlet how one of the mains he prepared was "a lamb popsicle, which is like a rack of lamb and with marinated mustard and sweet white wine in a fenugreek cream curry".

He then revealed that he had previously cooked the rack of lamb for Prince William and Kate Middleton during their visit to Vancouver in 2016. Eight years ago, the now Prince and Princess of Wales went on an eight-day trip to Canada, with them enjoying a fun-filled tour of the country, where they are believed to have dined at the Vjj restaurant in Vancouver.

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .