Taylor Swift, 34, sang 'You're Losing Me' during her Eras Tour in Melbourne, Australia, on Friday night - and many fans think the break-up song might be about her ex Joe Alwyn

Taylor Swift fans think the superstar is throwing shade on her ex-boyfriend Joe Alwyn with her new "You're Losing Me" which she performed live for the first time during her show in Australia this week.

The 34-year-old singer delivered a performance of the break-up song from her Grammy-winning album Midnights during the Eras Tour in Melbourne on Friday night. While sitting at the piano, she told the audience: "I've never played this song live before. It's one of my favourites."

The tune, which dropped in May 2023, is about a person realising their relationship is unhealthy and trying to save it. In the song, Swift says she is like a "phoenix always rising from the ashes, mending all her gashes" which sounds like something a person who recently went through a break-up would say.

READ MORE: Taylor Swift and Travis Kelce 'excited for future' after smitten Super Bowl appearance

The lyrics say: "And I wouldn't marry me either / A pathological people pleaser / Who only wanted you to see her / And I'm fadin', thinkin' / And I'm fadin', thinkin' / ‘Do something, babe, say something’ (Say something) / ‘Lose something, babe, risk something’ (You're losin' me) / ‘Choose something, babe, I got nothing’ (I got nothing) / ‘To believe, unless you're choosin' me."

Many fans have theorised the song was inspired by the end of Taylor's relationship with British actor Joe Alwyn. The couple dated for six years but broke up last year, before the singer moved on with Kansas City Chiefs star Travis Kelce.

When news of Taylor's and Joe's break-up emerged, a source told People that the couple had "grown apart" and that the "differences in their personalities" had become "harder to ignore". Another source told ET that the couple were too different to work but they found it hard to break up due to the time they spent together.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

Image: PA) PA) Image: Getty Images for TAS Rights Mana) Getty Images for TAS Rights Mana)

"It was more of Taylor's decision to break up, but both of them realised that they weren't completely right for one another," said the source. "They had been together for such a long time and were spending so much time together, but their personalities were just too different. Joe is more introverted, shy, and quiet."

"You're Losing Me" was not the only new song Taylor debuted this week as she also broke out the title track of Red that she had not performed since last year. Meanwhile, Taylor and her boyfriend Travis are said to "feel happy and excited for what lies ahead" as they are "adjusting to a new reality" after his triumphant Super Bowl win.

Image: Getty Images for TAS Rights Mana) Getty Images for TAS Rights Mana)

The hitmaker was in attendance at the sporting event last weekend at the Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas to support her boyfriend, also 34. Taylor cheered on Travis and the Kansas City Chiefs when they won 25-22 against the San Francisco 49ers at the event last Sunday, and now the couple are said to be excited for the future.

Taylor and Travis met last summer after the tight end attended the singer's sold-out Eras Tour in Kansas City. He expressed an interest in her after attending the gig, and then Taylor is said to have reached out. They started dating soon after and then went public with their romance in September.

Image: No credit) No credit)

Speaking exclusively to The Mirror, Inbaal Honigman said: "Adjusting to a new reality after the Super Bowl has the lovebirds feel happy and excited for what lies ahead." Carrying out an exclusive Tarot reading for the pair, Inbaal first pulled the 9 of Cups card for Travis, which is a card of fulfillment and satisfaction. "He's delighted that he played well, and that he's got his girl by his side. Travis is happy and confident, says the card, and just wants another year, exactly like this one," Inbaal revealed.

Meanwhile, for Taylor she pulled the 7 of Wands card, which is an enthusiastic and powerful Tarot card. "It says that Taylor, still smashing records on her enormous tour, is excited for the future." And for the couple as a whole, Inbaal pulled the Tower card, which is a Tarot card of unexpected changes and moves. She said: "Travis may join Taylor on the next leg of her tour, and there could be other teams hoping to entice the superstar athlete."

* Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook,YouTube and Threads.