Ben and Jackie Foden shared the news today that they have welcomed their second child together after heartbreakingly suffering three miscarriages in 12 months

Ben and Jackie Foden have welcomed their second child and shared their sweet name.

The pair revealed to OK! magazine that their baby daughter Olympia arrived into the world back on January 9th after they announced their pregnancy in October. The couple - who got married in August 2019 just two months after they started dating - are also parents to three-year-old daughter Farrah, who they welcomed together in 2021.

Ben is also the father of Aoife, 11, and Tadgh, eight, who he has with his ex Una Healy. In a new interview, the couple opened up about their baby joy, whilst Ben also discussed how he co-parents with The Saturdays star.

Image: Instagram/snackyjax) Instagram/snackyjax)

Image: Instagram) Instagram)

Speaking to OK!, he said: "Olympia – or, as we call her, Pia – is her mum’s double. I’m incredibly lucky," whilst Jackie added: "I tried to wait as long as possible but the doctors advised me that 9 January was as far as I could go. Looking back, I’m glad I didn’t wait any longer. She was 8lb 3oz; if we had let her go full-term they said she’d have been over 10lb!"

Jackie had previously explained how she didn't want to get excited about her pregnancy this time around after a string of heartaches. She said: "I kept getting excited about the pregnancies, but nothing stuck.

"After the third, we kept thinking, 'We’ll see if it happens – if it does, it does and if it doesn’t, it doesn’t.' It’s hard not to get your hopes up when you really want another baby. My mum then had a hunch that my progesterone levels were off, which they were, and I was quickly put on supplements and got my bloods monitored."

She added: "I have something called marginal cord insertion, which means the umbilical cord implanted in the wrong area, and makes the pregnancy higher risk. So going forward, we need to make especially sure the baby is growing at the correct rate."

Ben and Jackie tied the knot just two weeks after meeting. Sharing the news on Instagram at the time, he wrote: "This last year has been by far my toughest and most turbulent for a number of reasons that many of you I’m sure are aware of, in some way or another.

"The world has a funny way of working things out, many people think I’m a bad person - as I’m sure they’ll be many nasty comments left under this post by keyboard warriors a plenty. But I met a girl who seriously swept me off my feet and in a time of hardship showed me love, a deep devoted love. People will say we are mad or crazy or even fools, as @snackyjax and I had only been dating seriously for a little over 2 weeks before deciding to get married. But when someone like her comes in to your life, why would I wait?"