Love Island star Jamie Jewitt, who found love with Camilla Thurlow on season three of the show, shared a few snaps of himself after getting a hair transplant

Love Island star Jamie Jewitt looked different as he showed off his swollen head after getting a hair transplant.

The TV personality, who rose to fame on season three of the ITV2 programme and found love with Camilla Thurlow, took to his social media to share a few snaps of his shaved head - which was swelling due to the recent hair transplant he underwent at the British Hair Clinic.

He proudly smiled at the camera as he showcased the bandages wrapped around his head. He captioned the post: "All done. British Hair Clinic you were awesome." Once he got into his car, he showed fans the amount of swelling on his forehead. He posted a selfie alongside a picture of a beluga whale.

The brunette star, 33, wrote as his caption: "Day 1 swelling." Jamie met the love of his life Camilla while on Love Island. The duo tied the knot in September 2021.

Image: @jamiejewitt_/Instagram) @jamiejewitt_/Instagram) Image: @jamiejewitt_/Instagram) @jamiejewitt_/Instagram)

At the end of 2024, Camilla and Jamie announced they were expecting their third child together. The couple took to Instagram to share their announcement with fans and beamed from ear to ear while also revealing to their two young daughters that they will have a baby brother.

In a video shared with their followers, Jamie and Camilla could be seen teaching Nell, three, and Nora, one, the lessons of being a big sister. Taking to Instagram, the duo shared a festive shot and wrote: "Just us for a change (although we seem to have completely forgotten how to take a picture when we don’t each have a child to hold but we got there in the end)! Wishing you all a very Merry Christmas, we hope you have a wonderful day."

Image: @jamiejewitt_/Instagram) @jamiejewitt_/Instagram)

They first announced the news with a sweet post. The couple wrote: "Our lovely girls are getting a baby brother! Delighted to share that our little family is growing, baby boy is due in Spring 2024, it’s going to be a busy house!" Both of their children smiled as they were shown an ultrasound scan of their unborn brother.

Nell and Nora read a chalkboard that had "Big sister 1010: with brand new module 'Boys', Final exam May 2024," on it, as Jamie pointed to it. "OMG! Congrats! Still can't believe you guys came together because of Love Island and here you are... 3 babies later! So happy for you!" said one. A second added: "Wonderful news have followed you from the very beginning." Another penned: "Huge congratulations to you both.. what a lucky boy to be joining your family!!"

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .