Celebrity Big Brother finalist Lauren Harries has shared an update after having been hospitalised for months last year, now suggesting that she saw an angel and a 'better world'

Lauren Harries has revealed she saw a "better world" but was guided back by an "angel" during her months-long stay in hospital last year in an update on social media.

The reality TV star, 45 - who was a finalist on Celebrity Big Brother in 2013 - underwent "emergency brain surgery" in April last year. She spent months in hospital due to seizures and other health issues.

She was discharged from hospital in December and has continued to post updates on social media, including content of herself on a ward. The latest updates were shared by Lauren on Instagram this week.

Image: laurenharriesofficial/Instagram) laurenharriesofficial/Instagram) Image: laurenharriesofficial/Instagram) laurenharriesofficial/Instagram)

Lauren took to the platform on Friday afternoon and revealed she had seen a "better world" and an "angel" in one instance. She wrote: "I was left with a dent on my head as well but I did see. A new world a better world and a Angel I keep drawing him over and over so please visit my gallery laurenharries.com to see him I didn't like him for a long time as he brought me back I remember the colours auras around him I wanted to stay there I really did this will be my last message for a while light and peace Lauren." (sic)

A post shared shortly beforehand read: "The doctors have warned me to stay in bed but at least l'm not in hospital anymore." Lauren - who was left "unable to walk" at times during her recovery - told fans that not being able to "wear any shoes is awful" and expressed gratitude towards her family for their support. She added: "Life will never be the same again but I'm working on it. I will never give up thanks to all my angels and stars."

Whilst another post on her Instagram Story earlier teased over a potential return to TV. Lauren - who has appeared on shows such as Loose Women and Naked Attraction - wrote to fans: "I can't wait to go back to work on TV again!"

Just days ago, Lauren said on X, formerly known as Twitter, that she was left with "holes" in her head after undergoing brain surgery. She tweeted: "I was dead and in [a] coma but now l'm alive. I have had to learn to walk again [and] do everything again. After the brain surgery had left five holes in my head. I went to a different dimension what you call a outer body experience. [It's] such a beautiful place l will tell you about it soon."

Image: laurenharriesofficial/Instagram) laurenharriesofficial/Instagram) Image: Instagram) Instagram)

Fans were made aware of her health issues in April last year when it was stated that Lauren "would have died" had she not undergone "emergency brain surgery". Lauren's mother Katy Harris tweeted that her daughter had undergone such a procedure. Amid her recovery, it was shared in an update that the reality TV star had been experiencing "blackouts" and a "consistent headache".

Last year, Lauren was put into an induced coma following a seizure before being woken from the coma days later. At the time, an update revealed: "She is unable to walk and her feet are in pain."

The following month, it was revealed she'd undergone spinal surgery "due to a split in her spine," but the procedure had been "unsuccessful". An update just weeks later read: "We were informed yesterday that Lauren has a life threatening spinal tear. She is having emergency surgery today, the first of two operations. This has meant she is in constant pain and unable to walk it could also lead to more bleeding on the brain."

Lauren posted that she had just found out about needing "life saving surgery" on her back in August and said that surgery on her feet would "hopefully" mean that she could "walk again". It was tweeted on December 6 that Lauren was "out of hospital" in time for Christmas following "the most stressful seven months" for the family.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.