A doctor explained why you should be using the loo at the 'optical organ time' as it is good for our bowel movement and the overall health of our bodies and how often you should go

Ever stopped to consider when you need to use the loo? Probably not.

According to one health expert, if you're going to the toilet at a specific time of the day, it's a sign of your good health. However, if you're struggling to go for a poo in the mornings there are some things you can do, including eating foods high in fibre, drinking plenty of water during the day, and getting in the habit of taking short walks after big meals, according to Hum Nutrition.

Most of us are guilty of using our phones - or if you want to lower your screen time - grabbing a book to read instead, but one health expert says you should also be doing something else instead. Having regular bowel movements can be essential for good health, but the exact number of times you poop in a week depends on your age, diet, and physical activity.

Health experts say that you should be using the toilet at least 2-3 times per day. According to the pro, going to the toilet first thing ensures your body is receiving the optical 'organ time to have that bowel movement.

Some contributing factors to not having a healthy bowel movement include not getting enough sleep when our bodies detoxify and process food through the liver and the kidneys. Poor sleep may affect your immune system and, in turn, your gut health.

According to research, sleep deprivation increases inflammation in your body and can lead to a higher risk of obesity, heart disease, and diabetes.

Dr Janine Bowring shared a video to TikTok explaining that the best time to use the loo during the day is straight after waking up as "according to Chinese Medicine, morning eliminations is the optimal 'organ time' to have that bowel movement.

In a video posted under the account, @j9naturally, the Canadian doctor went on to add: "We know that the body has processed and detoxified throughout the night through the liver and the kidneys. All of those toxins that were exposed to on a daily basis and then we dump that load through the bowels in the morning to start the day again.

"So, my tip here is whenever you see that early morning light allow your body to warm up naturally in the morning first thing to help stimulate the good poop" she added.