Labour leader Keir Starmer was being interviewed after wins in the Wellingborough and Kingswood by-elections when he was asked about Rishi Sunak's jibe about trans people at PMQs

Keir Starmer has said he "lost some respect" for Rishi Sunak after he made a jibe about transgender people while the mum of Brianna Ghey was in Parliament.

The Labour leader admitted he sees the PM differently now as he "crossed the line" with the comment. At Prime Minister's Questions earlier this month, the PM attacked the Labour leader over making U-turns, including on "defining a woman - although in fairness that was only 99% of a U-turn". He made the jibe despite Mr Starmer having said the mum of murdered trans teen Brianna was due to watch PMQs in the Commons gallery.

Mr Starmer hit back at Mr Sunak: "Of all the weeks to say that when Brianna's mother is in this chamber - shame. Parading as a man of integrity when he's got absolutely no responsibility." Other MPs also shouted "shame" while one could be heard saying: "Disgusting".

Image: BBC) BBC)

Asked whether he now sees Mr Sunak differently, Mr Starmer today told BBC Breakfast: "Yes, because I think that whichever political party you're in, whoever you are, and I try not to pick personal fights with those that I'm against in politics, I think the job of the Prime Minister is to rise above all other politicians and to make sure that every single citizen in this country, whatever their identity, whatever their background, ethnicity, or anything else, feels safe and respected."

Asked if the PM has his respect, Mr Starmer said: "He has lost some of my respect because of his response in relation to that because, this is fundamental to me, I genuinely believe that the Prime Minister, of all people should rise above and be able to speak to and for the nation. Every citizen - every citizen - should feel safe and respected, that is a bare minimum. And I thought he crossed the line. When he said what he said, whatever his views on the issues in question, I thought he crossed the line. And that's why I was genuinely shocked."

At a briefing for journalists, No10 six times refused to apologise. Mr Sunak’s Press Secretary insisted it was "legitimate" to point out Mr Starmer's "U-turns". Mr Starmer has previously said that 99.9% of women "haven't got a penis".

Brianna's dad joined calls for the PM to apologise. Peter Spooner said Mr Sunak's remarks were "degrading" and "absolutely dehumanising".

Mum Ms Ghey said: "I don’t wish to comment on reports of wording or comments recently made. My focus is on creating a positive change and a lasting legacy for Brianna.

"Through Peace & Mind, we want to improve lives by empowering people, giving them the tools they need to build mental resilience, empathy, and self-compassion through mindfulness. In developing these skills, I hope that we can create a more understanding, peaceful, and stronger society for everyone."