It could be argued that Gucci was the winner of the 77th British Academy Film Awards on Sunday night - as both Clara Amfo and Nell Mescal wore one of their dresses

There was style collision on the EE BAFTA Film Award 2024 red carpet as TV host Clara Amfo and actor Paul Mescal’s sister Nell stunned in the same evening dress.

Both ladies opted for a sleeveless sheer black dress by Gucci with a pleated skirt section that looked elegant on both of them. Pre-BAFTA awards show host Clara, 39, had her hair tied up in an exquisite braided style and added sparkle to her look with eye catching dangling earrings.

While 28-year-old Normal People star Paul’s younger sister Nell, 20, was twinning in the same dress, which she paired with black heels, and she kept her hair loose around her shoulders. Nell - who is a singer-songwriter and will release her debut EP, titled Can I Miss It For A Minute?, in May this year - was feeling good about herself as she prepared to celebrate film on Sunday night.

Image: Getty Images for BAFTA) Getty Images for BAFTA) Image: Gareth Cattermole/Getty Images f) Gareth Cattermole/Getty Images f)

Taking to Instagram ahead of the ceremony, she shared a number of photos of herself posing in her dress with a smile on her face. Sharing images on her main feed, she captioned the snaps simply: “oh hi” - and shared more snaps via Stories. Fans praised the women for rocking the luxurious dress - with one writing in approval of Nell, writing via X: “Actually stunning I simply cannot." Another typed: "oh my god nell mescal has blown my mind." While a further fan gushed: "YOU LOOK STUNNING."

Clara also proved to be a hit as fans raved about her red carpet look. One fan praised the presenter on X writing: "LOVE this" - while another responded to images of her online with a string of flame emojis and another expressed appreciation with a flaming heart emoji. Meanwhile, other fans remarked how brilliant both stars looked, with one writing online: “Both the women look lovely.”

Paul was nominated in the Best Actor in a Supporting Role category for his role as Harry in the drama All Of Us Strangers - but he lost out to Oppenheimer star Robert Downey Jr. It was a big night of success for Oppenheimer overall on Sunday night. The film was nominated for an astonishing 13 awards - and walked off with seven of them. Christopher Nolan scooped the Best Director award for the film - and the film also won the biggest award of the night, Best Film.

He shared his concerns about the risk nuclear war poses to the world as he made his acceptance speech, saying he opted to end the film on a “dramatically necessary note of despair.” He praised: “individuals and organizations who have fought long and hard to reduce the number of nuclear weapons in the world.” And he added: “In accepting this I do just want to acknowledge their efforts and point out they show the necessity and potential of efforts for peace.”

Acknowledging the fact the gong was his first ever BAFTA, he added: “[It is an] incredible honor to be back home, to get this from BAFTA, in the festival hall where my my mum and dad used to drag me to make me have some culture. Some of it stuck. It suddenly occurs to me my younger brother beat me up here by about 40 years not because he’s ever won a BAFTA but because he was part of the snowflake chorus in the ‘Nutcracker’ here many years ago.”

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads.