Laura Meritt Walker, who runs lifestyle blog Merritt and Style with her sister Cristie Meritt Taylor, announced the death of her son Callahan in a heartbreaking Instagram post

Lifestyle blogger Laura Meritt Walker has shared a video of son Callahan looking happy and carefree before the three-year-old tragically died.

The Texas blogger, who runs the lifestyle blog Merritt & Style, shared the devastating news of her youngest child's death on Monday (12 February). Laura, who blogs alongside sister Cristie, shared three boys with her husband David Walker - eldest child Beckham, who is 10, Chamberlain, who is seven, and Callahan, the youngest at three years old.

In the sad post, the blogger shared a series of snaps of the adorable youngster as well as a video of the three-year-old in pyjamas with books.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Lifestyle blogger Laura Meritt Walker's son Callahan dies in 'tragic accident'

Image: Laura Meritt Walker/Instagram) Laura Meritt Walker/Instagram)

Yesterday Texas Police confirmed to Daily Mail that officers "responded to a drowning call" that involved Merritt Walker and her husband but have said that no further details are yet available.

Laura shared the tragic news with her followers as she wrote on social media: "We are completely broken-hearted to share that we lost our precious Callahan in a tragic accident last week. He was such a blessing and brought so much joy to our whole family.

"Cal-Bear was absolutely adored by his big brothers and loved them beyond measure. As parents we are completely shattered at the loss of our baby boy. We take comfort knowing he is being held in the arms of Jesus. We would be honored to have your prayers for peace and strength over our family during this impossible time."

The post has been inundated with wishes for Laura and her family and sadness over the tragic death of Callahan. Influencer Brittani Boren posted a broken heart emoji as she wrote: "I'll be praying for you and your family, this absolutely breaks my heart because I know this heartache and I'm just so sorry."

Another well wisher added: "Oh my gosh Laura... I am so so so heartbroken to hear this. I know no words will help during this time but sending so much love, hugs, and comfort to you and your family. So many prayers and love to you."

Callahan regularly featured in his mum Laura's social media content, and most recently, the influencer shared his third birthday in October with an Oktoberfest-inspired birthday party. Sharing pictures of the celebrations online, which were cutely named 'CALtoberfest', the family of five looked happy and carefree. Posting at the time, Laura wrote: "Happy 3rd Birthday to our precious boy. We had the absolute best time with this party theme!! So grateful for these wonderful memories and getting to celebrate Callahan turning 3!"

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .