Footloose first hit the big screen in 1984 - a whopping 40 years ago. We take a look at where the cast of the 80s cult classic is today and ask what the chances of a prequel are

Where the cast of Footloose is now as the iconic movie celebrates 40th anniversary

It has been 40 years since the hit musical Footloose debuted on the big screen in 1984.

Based on a true story, the iconic movie told the tale of hunky Chicago-born teenager Ren McCormack, who moves to a small town where he fights to overturn the ban on dancing and rock music. The 80s cult classic's success has spanned decades and it was the big break for many of the most famous names in Hollywood today - including Sarah Jessica Parker and Kevin Bacon - but for others, it proved difficult to recreate the early success the film gave them.

What have the cast of the hit musical been up to over the last 40 years - and where are they now?

READ MORE: Footloose actress Lynne Marta dies aged 78 at LA home after battling cancer

Image: Paramount/Kobal/REX/Shutterstock) Paramount/Kobal/REX/Shutterstock)

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US .

Kevin Bacon (Ren McCormack)

Kevin Bacon played heartthrob dance enthusiast Ren McCormack in what was his first big acting role. Kevin, who was 24 at the time, secretly enrolled as a high school exchange student in Utah to prep for the role - which was made possible by the fact he was virtually unknown at the time.

Today, the 65-year-old is not only one of the biggest names in Hollywood, having starred in X-Men, Apollo 13, and A Few Good Men, but also the face of EE mobile network - a role for which he is rumoured to have been paid millions. Sadly for Footloose fanatics, in a recent episode of his Six Degrees with Kevin Bacon podcast, he came out as staunchly against the idea of a prequel of the movie 40 years later, saying: “It would be a disaster”.

The star recently celebrated his 35th wedding anniversary with Golden Globe winner Kyra Sedgwig - and the famous couple is set to star together in the upcoming movie Connescence.

John Lithgow (Reverand Shaw Moore)

John Lithgow has enjoyed an incredible career since his role as conflicted small-town Reverand Shaw Moore in the 1984 cult classic. The 78-year-old legendary actor has quite the trophy collection, having won a whopping six Emmys, two Tony Awards, and two Golden Globes.

The star also won a SAG award for his portrayal of Winston Churchill in The Crown in 2017 and was highly commended for his role in Dexter. John also featured as the voice of Lord Farquard in the hit animated movie Shrek.

Sarah Jessica Parker (Rusty)

Although today Sarah Jessica Parker is best known for her role as Carrie Bradshaw in Sex and the City, her first big break in Hollywood was as spunky sidekick Rusty in Footloose. Of course, her time in supportive roles is now long gone, and the Emmy winner has been the leading lady in Hocus Pocus, The First Wives Club, and The Family Stone - to name a few!

She has had a string of famous love interests but today is happily married to fellow actor Matthew Broderick. The couple tied the knot in 1997 and share three children together.

Dianne Wiest (Vi Moore)

Dianne was well-established in the theatre world before being cast as the local reverend’s wife, Vi Moore, in Footloose, but relatively unknown in Hollywood. With the musical giving her a chance to show her skill on the screen, she went on to win several Oscars and Emmys for her roles in hits like Hannah and Her Sisters, Bullets Over Broadway, and In Treatment.

Lori Singer (Ariel Moore)

Lori Singer famously beat huge names like Michelle Pfeiffer and Jodie Foster to play the role of Ariel Moore - the town reverend's rebellious and beautiful daughter - in Footloose. Prior to the movie, she starred in the Fame TV series, but although she continued acting long after her musical success, she has not had a huge number of roles since her early career as a bombshell actress.

Image: Paramount/Kobal/REX/Shutterstock) Paramount/Kobal/REX/Shutterstock)

The star appeared in Law and Order: Special Victims Unit as well as films Experimenter and The Institute and won a Golden Globe for her role in the 1993 film Short Cuts. She is also an accomplished cellist and performed in memory of Martin Luther King in a 2008 memorial.

Chris Penn (William Hewitt)

Chris Penn starred as William Hewitt, Ren’s best friend who he teaches to dance, in the blockbuster. Chris went on to enjoy a successful career after, bagging great roles in Rush Hour, Reservoir Dogs, and Short Cuts.

Image: Moviestore/REX/Shutterstock) Moviestore/REX/Shutterstock) Image: Paramount/Kobal/REX/Shutterstock) Paramount/Kobal/REX/Shutterstock)

Sadly, behind the scenes, the actor was battling an alcohol and cocaine addiction throughout much of his early time in the spotlight. Although he managed to kick his habits, he tragically died aged just 40 years old in 2006 from heart disease. His famous big brother, Sean Penn, told Larry King at the time: "It was a natural death, but a natural death that was brought on by some hard living, but particularly weight."

Image: CBS via Getty Images) CBS via Getty Images)

John Laughlin (Woody)

John starred as hunky classmate Woody in Footloose. He went on to enjoy a lengthy but less successful career than some of his infamous costars. He was critically acclaimed for his leading performance in Crimes of Passion and has also appeared in TV shows I Am the Night and NCIS.

Elizabeth Gorcey (Wendy Jo)

After her role as boy-crazy teen Wendy Jo, Elizabeth starred in shows such as Teen Wolf and The Trouble. Later, the actress made the move to work behind the camera - and has directed numerous documentaries such as Adopting Ginny and How Old is Old.