Reality TV star Kelly Osbourne has come under fire by furious fans after she recently gushed over the controversial weight loss drug Ozempic which is used to treat Type 2 Diabetes

Kelly Osbourne has been blasted on social media after she branded a controversial weight loss drug 'amazing' following her recent weight loss transformation.

The daughter of Ozzy and Sharon Osbourne recently hailed Ozempic - a Type 2 diabetes medication which has been increasingly used in Hollywood for weight loss - as the best thing to ever happen to her after she dropped a huge amount of weight. The controversial drug works by mimicking a naturally occurring hormone.

As those hormone levels rise, the molecules go to ones brain, telling it that you're full. It also slows digestion by increasing the time it takes for food to leave the body. This is similar to the effect of bariatric surgery.

Image: Instagram/kellyosbourne) Instagram/kellyosbourne) Image: Getty Images,) Getty Images,)

The growing popularity of the use of Ozempic has been met with immense backlash as the injections were initially made to aid Type 2 diabetes, however celebrities have been using it for cosmetic reasons. This has meant that supplies for those who need it for medical use are running dangerously low.

Despite this leading to warnings from health professions, Kelly, 39, praised the use of the controversial drug for dropping a several dress sizes. Speaking last month at Dolly Parton’s Pet Gala, she said: “I think it’s amazing,” when discussing Ozempic.

“There are a million ways to lose weight, why not do it through something that isn’t as boring as working out? People hate on it because they want to do it. And the people who hate on it the most are the people who are secretly doing it or pissed off that they can’t afford it. Unfortunately, right now it’s something that is very expensive but it eventually won’t be because it actually works," she added.

Her defiant comments surrounding the controversial matter have sparked huge backlash online as several social media users have branded the reality TV star as 'out of touch' and 'selfish'. "Kelly Osbourne is nothing but an ignorant and entitled brat," one fumed.

“Diabetics can’t get life saving treatment but Kelly Osbourne is putting it down to hating and being broke. What an idiot," another echoed. "Rich ppl have easy access to healthy food options, personal trainers and chefs but they choose to take ozempic that’s not meant for them and causing shortages for those who truly need them," someone else added.

Someone else raged: "Yeah i'm p***ed off my family can't afford it because we're DIABETIC and actually need it to survive. another great Kelly Osbourne take." Kelly's famous mum Sharon, 71, has also confessed to using Ozempic.

Sharon opened up on the difficulties she experiences using it. She told The Daily Mail last year she now struggles to put on weight, explaining: "I'm too gaunt and I can't put any weight on."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok,Snapchat,Instagram,Twitter,Facebook,YouTubeandThreads.