Jade Goody's widower Jack Tweed has offered a stark word of warning to Bobby Brazier amid rumours the Strictly Come Dancing and EastEnders star is about to follow in his mum's footsteps and enter the Big Brother house

Bobby Brazier has been issued a word of warning by his mother Jade Goody's widower Jack Tweed, amid rumours he is about to follow her footsteps with a star turn in the Big Brother house.

The 20-year-old has been hotly tipped to be joining the cast of the revamped celebrity series which is due to kick off next month. The franchise made a household name of his late mum Jade, but her husband Jack said her 'totally life fell apart' when she returned to the show's spin-off.

Jack has asked Bobby and his brother Freddie, 19, to think twice if they have been offered big money from Channel 5 to appear. Now living in Essex with his new partner, Jack described the reality show as a 'total nightmare' and said it would be a huge 'risk' for Bobby to taint his image by entering the house.

"My advice would be to stay well clear. It is not worth it," Jack told the Mail. "Me and Jade did not have a great experience. It ended in disaster," said Jack. 'It caused a lot of problems. If they asked me what I think having been on it myself I would say avoid it."

Image: WireImage) WireImage) Image: jacktweed_/Instagram) jacktweed_/Instagram)

Jack urged Bobby - who reached the final of Strictly Come Dancing last year - to be more careful the more successful he becomes. "It's very hard to trust people in that industry. I found people constantly trying to turn you over and out to get you for their own benefit. It's the nature of the beast. A lot of people were going behind Jade's back to make money from her. It's about greed. That world is full of snakes."

Jack said his time on Big Brother with Jade was 'soul destroying' and he wouldn't wish the experience for Bobby or his brother Freddie. Praising Jade's former partner Jeff Brazier, Jack said he was glad Bobby had good people in his corner to steer him on the right path, as his mother Jade had 'fake people' surrounding her.

Jade was catapulted to fame after starring in the third series of Big Brother in 2002. Despite not winning, Jade became the breakout star of the show after delighting viewers with her one-liners and constant slew of gaffes.

After forging a career as a celebrity in her own right after the show, Jade returned to the franchise for Celebrity Big Brother in 2007. However, her comeback shattered her public image after she was caught up in a race row with her fellow housemates.

Jade and her pals Danielle Lloyd and Jo O'Meara were accused of bullying Bollywood star Shilpa Shetty. Viewers were appalled at the scenes with more than 44,500 complaints made to Ofcom - a record at the time.

After five years away, Celebrity Big Brother will return to air next month with a brand new line up and hosts. Following a successful civilian run, presenters AJ Odudu and Will Best are back to host the revamped series with the line-up currently a closely guarded secret.

The likes of Phillip Schofield, Rebekah Vardy and James Haskell have been rumoured to take part.