Destiny's Child have reunited for a very special reason which comes after Beyoncé praised her 'best friend' Kelly Rowland amid fan speculation of a proper reunion

Destiny's Child reunite as Beyonce praises 'best friend' Kelly Rowland - and fans have one request

Destiny's Child has reunited as Beyoncé praises "best friend" Kelly Rowland - and fans have been sharing the same request.

The hit girl group, whose final line-up comprised Beyoncé Knowles, Kelly Rowland, and Michelle Williams, was formed in 1990 in Houston, Texas. But in 2006, the band split and went their separate ways.

But in February 2024, the band got back together, with Kelly even getting support from superstar pal Beyoncé.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Prince Harry already has plans to return to the UK to see his family after brief visit

Image: GC Images) GC Images) Image: Getty Images for Netflix) Getty Images for Netflix)

Kelly, 43, reunited with fellow Destiny's Child members Beyoncé and Michelle on Thursday, at the premiere of her new project, the Netflix thriller titled Mea Culpa. Kelly could be seen posing with Bey and Michelle separately, with them all in attendance at The Paris Theatre.

Bey even took to social media to gush over Kelly in full view of her fans. "Dats my best friend! Dats my best friend," Beyoncé wrote. She went on: "So proud of you Kelly", complete with a praying hands emoji. The caption accompanied some sweet snaps from the event.

Commenting on Bey's Instagram post, fans were quick to praise the singer for how much she supports her pals. One person said: "She's real proud of Kelly!" While another said: "She's so proud. And so are we! We love you Kelly."

A third person then wrote: "Don't you just love it when your bestie thrives." While someone else added: "She is always going to have Kelly's back."

Meanwhile, someone who attended the event took to X, formerly known as Twitter, to pen: "Experiencing the Destiny’s Child Reunion is real-time was not on my 2024 bingo card!" Also on the platform, fans went wild over the possibility of a proper reunion of the hit R&B girl group, with one person writing: "Is the third act gonna be a Destiny’s Child reunion?"

Another added: "I know we haven’t even gotten act ii yet but all I do know is that act iii better bring me a Destiny’s Child reunion tour." While a third said: "Suppose Beyoncé does this country tour…wouldn’t it be cool if a Destiny’s Child reunion was included on the tour." A fourth simply pleaded: "Please we need a destiny’s child reunion tour…:

Bey wasn't the only former bandmate to support Kelly online, because Michelle did too. "Baby listen!! That’s all I can say about it," she penned. And speaking to PEOPLE, Michelle added that she was there to "support my sister Kelly Rowland and Tyler Perry". She added: "Kelly has been talking about this moment for a very long time."

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .