The In Memoriam segment was accompanied by a live performance by Hannah Waddingham tonight as the stars we lost this year were remembered by the industry

BBC viewers were fuming tonight after the BAFTAs snubbed Matthew Perry as they remembered all those lost in the last 12 months.

Hannah Waddingham performed an emotional performance of Cyndi Lauper's Time After Time as the ceremony remembered those who had died in a special In Memoriam segment. As he introduced the segment, host David Tennant paid tribute to those who had lost their lives, as their names flashed up on a screen whilst Hannah sung.

The segment ended with a clip of Sir Michael Gambon playing Dumbledore in the Harry Potter films, leaving fans devastated as they paid tribute to an icon of Hollywood, who passed away in late September 2023. However, there was no mention of Friends star Matthew Perry, who passed away last year.

Taking to social media, one fan wrote: "Any reason why Matthew Perry wasn’t mentioned in this year’s departed list? #BAFTAs," whilst a second added: "Can't believe you omitted Matthew Perry from the In Memoriam. #BAFTA." A third shared: "As if you haven’t shown Matthew Perry #baftas," with a fourth writing: "How the f*** do you forget Matthew Perry #BAFTAs." A fifth added: "No Matthew Perry in the #BAFTAs memorium?? Feels a tad disrespectful. Did they just forget?"

BAFTA have since confirmed that Matthew Perry will be remembered in the forthcoming BAFTA Television Awards in May.

Ahead of his hosting debut, David Tennant has revealed what he won't be doing during the show. "Not being a comic I feel gives me slight cover. I'm not really expected to be good at any of that stuff. I'm just there to hold it all together. And don't diss Tay Tay, I think is the lesson to be learned. I live in a house of Taylor Swift fans, so I know better," he said.

He is, of course, referring to comedian Jo Koy's comment at last month's Golden Globes, where she joked about Taylor supporting her boyfriend Travis Kelce, who is part of American football team Kansas City Chiefs. She said: "The big difference between the Golden Globes and the NFL? On the Golden Globes, we have fewer camera shots of Taylor Swift, I swear."

Asked if he'd be making any political comments, he added: "There's so much going on in the world that one could talk about. But think it would be probably a hostage to fortune to try and use that platform.

"Obviously, we live in a world where there's all sorts of awful things going on and we're all deeply moved by it. But probably the purpose of an award show at this moment in time is to have a moment away from all that."

*Follow Mirror Celebs and TV on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.