Luton captain Tom Lockyer has revealed that he's spoken to Manchester United midfielder Christian Eriksen and two other players about returning to football following his cardiac arrest.

Eriksen, 32, collapsed while playing for Denmark at the European Championships in 2021, but he was able to play football again professionally within eight months after being fitted with a Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator (ICD). Wales international Lockyer is currently recovering after also suffering a cardiac arrest during Luton's Premier League game at Bournemouth in December.

That was the second time the 29-year-old defender had collapsed during a game within the space of seven months, having also been rushed to hospital after going down during Luton's play-off final victory over Coventry at Wembley last May. Although Lockyer hasn't made a decision on his future, he has consulted with Eriksen and two more footballers who've had cardiac arrests - namely Daley Blind, formerly of United and now of Spanish side Girona, and Wigan striker Charlie Wyke, who's on loan at Rotherham.

Speaking to Sky Sports ahead of Luton's clash with United on Sunday, Lockyer revealed: "They've all been brilliant. I've spoken to Christian, Daley Blind and Charlie Wyke who have all had similar heart conditions.

"The one thing that was common from them all was, 'take your time to process what has happened'. And in some ways I don't think I have processed it, maybe because as athletes we're able to deal with things differently and can compartmentalise.

"Maybe it will come back and bite me on the bum, but I've not really had any emotions since, I know I literally died but I've been quite numb about it. But like I said, my girlfriend is pregnant, due soon, that's my priority."

As for returning to the pitch, Lockyer's current priorities are making a full recovery and helping his wife through the final stages of her pregnancy. "That's out of my hands in a way," the 29-year-old, who's also played for Charlton, Bristol Rovers and Basingstoke. explained.

"That will be dictated by medical staff and specialists, but what I would say is that if there is a chance - obviously I won't do anything against specialist recommendations - then I would love to.

Image: Alex Caparros/Getty Images) Alex Caparros/Getty Images) Image: Catherine Ivill/Getty Images) Catherine Ivill/Getty Images)

"Obviously it's far too early to say at this time, there’s a lot more tests that need to happen. But I wouldn't write it off at the minute, but my priorities are with the baby."

Lockyer humbly added: "It's not something that happens everyday, the eyes of the world were on us. It was nice to come out and say, 'I'm doing well', I think everyone deserves to know that and see me doing really well. I can't lie, it's been a tough few months but I am well."

Join our new WhatsApp community and receive your daily dose of Mirror Football content. We also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don't like our community, you can check out any time you like. If you're curious, you can read our Privacy Notice.