Journalist Kevin O'Sullivan has criticised Meghan Markle for her description on the new Sussex website, even though it simply mentions awards and nominations she has received

Meghan Markle has faced criticism after referring to herself as one of the "most influential women in the world" on the new website she launched earlier this week with her husband Prince Harry.

The Sussex.com website, titled "The Office of Prince Harry & Meghan, The Duke & Duchess of Sussex", says it aims to shape the future "through business and philanthropy". It was launched this month and features four sections - one about general information, one about Harry, another about Meghan, and one more called "news" where the couple share their latest updates on the events they attend.

In the section about Meghan, she is described as "a feminist and champion of human rights and gender equity" and someone who keeps advocacy for women and girls as "a constant thread" in her work. The description goes on to say: "She has been named one of the most influential women in the world in rankings including TIME Magazine's Most Influential People, The Financial Times' 25 Most Influential Women, Variety Power of Women, and British Vogue's Vogue 25."

READ MORE: Prince Harry and Meghan Markle issue statement on controversial new Sussex.com website

Image: WireImage) WireImage) Image: WireImage) WireImage)

The new website was the topic of a panel discussion on Talk TV, with Ian Collins, JJ Anisiobi, Emma Woolf, Penny Smith, and Kevin O'Sullivan sharing their views about the rebrand, reports the Express. While some have criticised Harry and Meghan for using their royal crests as well as their "Duke and Duchess" titles, Ms Woolf said: "A. She was given that royal crest on her marriage and apparently she's allowed to use it. B. They're not flogging any mugs or tea towels yet on the website. They're not yet 'cashing in'."

Meanwhile, Mr O'Sullivan criticised Meghan's description as one of the most influential women, even though she did not make it up herself, but simply mentioned the awards and nominations she was given by the likes of TIME Magazine and Vogue. The journalist said: "On that website, there are these absolutely pompous biographies of each other in which Meghan describes herself as 'one of the influential women in the world'. No, you're not!"

He added: "And they're not allowed to use the Duke and Duchess of Sussex. It's a royal title, he agreed not to use it. It's a royal title, that's true. Don't peddle lies." But Mr Anisiobi cleared up the confusion, saying: "He agreed not to use 'His and Her Royal Highness'. They are allowed to use Sussex."

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

The panel also discussed the couple changing the surname of their children, Archie and Lilibet, from Mountbatten-Windsor to Sussex. People frequently refer to the family as the Sussexes, much like how Prince William and Harry were given the surname Wales at school and in the military.

This choice breaks a tradition from 1960 that said future heirs of Queen Elizabeth II should be named Mountbatten-Windsor. But a source close to the couple has leaped to their defence, and plainly stated that "Sussex is their name".

Yesterday, Harry and Meghan updated their website with new details about the Invictus Games next year. The couple travelled to Canada for a three-day trip to make one year to go until the 2025 sporting event, which will now include winter sports with alpine skiing, snowboarding, biathlon, Nordic skiing, skeleton and wheelchair curling for the first time.

The winter sports are in addition to the core Invictus sports such as sitting volleyball, swimming, wheelchair basketball and wheelchair rugby. As the sporting roster is expanded, the couple have updated their website with details of their final appearance in Canada as they attended a wheelchair curling demonstration at Hillcrest Community Centre in Vancouver.

The Duke and Duchess have added a page highlighting their appearance at the wheelchair demonstration. The page reads: "The Duke and Duchess spent the morning with Invictus alumni, military families, sponsors, supporters, Michael Bublé and Luisana Lopilato. The Duke spoke from the heart and delivered touching remarks to those gathered.

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

"The Hillcrest Community Centre was built to host the 2010 Vancouver Olympic and Paralympic Curling competitions. The facility is a showcase for local community activities including an ice hockey rink, library, gymnasium, and large aquatic facility. Invictus Games Vancouver Whistler 2025 will host a fun family Bonspiel event for competitors and Family and Friends to compete together. During competition, Family and Friends will also have access to the swimming pool, ice arena and public library."

Dominic Reid, CEO of the Invictus Games, told PEOPLE why it was so important to include the winter sports into the sporting event as he said: "It's been quite a long time in the making, but here we are. I'm really excited about what we're going to be able to do in 2025."

* Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat,Instagram, Twitter, Facebook,YouTube and Threads.