Meghan Markle and Prince Harry were once close friends with David and Victoria Beckham, but their friendship has since soured over allegations of leaking stories to the press

Meghan Markle and Prince Harry have struck up an unlikely friendship with Michael Buble after the royal couple ditched David and Victoria Beckham.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are in Canada for a whirlwind three-day tour of Vancouver and Whistler for the One Year To Go celebrations ahead of the 2025 Invictus Games, and on Friday, they hit the ice to try out a winter sport that will be included in the games for the first time. Harry and Meghan were joined by Canadian crooner Michael Bublé and his wife Luisana Lopilato at the Hillcrest Community Centre in Vancouver as they tried out wheelchair curling.

The 39-year-old prince attempted the tricky sport alongside the Feeling Good hitmaker, and he was cheered on by the singer, as well as Canadian Armed Forces veterans and former Invictus Games competitors. At one point, Michael shouted, “Oh no!” as Harry missed another vital shot, while Meghan watched her husband on the sidelines alongside Luisana.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US .

READ MORE: Prince Harry plans to 'come together' with Royal Family after hitting back at 'make or break' claim

Image: Canadian Press/REX/Shutterstock) Canadian Press/REX/Shutterstock)

Their unlikely friendship began in 2015, when the Duchess of Sussex first met Michael at a dinner party hosted by her best friend Jessica Mulroney. The singer is close friends with Jessica’s husband Ben, who is the son of former Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, and Meghan attended the dinner party while filming Suits in Vancouver. She recalled meeting Michael in a post on her now-defunct website The Tig, and called the singer a “delightful guy”.

“This proud papa, husband to the lovely Luisana Lopilato, and certifiably delightful guy, makes for one hell of a dinner companion. But there’s this other thing about him that is perhaps worth mentioning. Oh right. He sings,” she wrote.

Image: Canadian Press/REX/Shutterstock) Canadian Press/REX/Shutterstock)

The couple’s friendship with Michael and his wife comes after it emerged David and Victoria Beckham have effectively ended their friendship with the Sussexes over a row about leaking stories to the press. According to the Mail on Sunday, the former England and Manchester United footballer is “absolutely furious” after it was suggested that he and wife Victoria had leaked stories about Meghan and Harry.

David and Harry struck up a close friendship when the former sportsman became an official Invictus Games ambassador, and the Beckhams were one of the many celebrity guests at Meghan and Harry’s wedding in 2018. Sources revealed that their friendship is now over after Meghan reportedly became concerned about “indiscretion” from the ex-Spice Girl, and accusations were thrown during a heated phone call between David and Harry.