The 50% offer which is available to Ikea "Family Members" begins on Friday, February 2, and will continue every Friday across stores until the end of August this year

Ikea will be offering meals for half price every Friday from next week as part of its new "Swe-Dish Fridays" deal.

The popular Swedish furniture company will be cutting the price of main meals across breakfast, lunch and dinner at restaurants in its warehouse stores. The 50% offer which is available to Ikea "Family Members" begins on Friday, February 2, and will continue every Friday across stores until the end of August this year.

The Ikea Family Member loyalty scheme is free to sign up for and gives members access to exclusive offers and rewards. This also includes discounts on selected Ikea products, workshops, ideas, plus a free hot drink in selected stores.

Meals which are part of the deal include the chain's famous and iconic meatballs which are served with mashed potatoes, peas, cream sauce and lingonberry jam and will cost just £2.45 - if you have a bigger appetite you can get 12 meatballs for £2.95. Veggies also won't miss out as the Plant Balls will cost just £2.25 and £2.75. If you need to take your little ones down to Ikea also won't miss out either with children’s Pasta and Tomato Sauce served with a soft drink and a piece of fruit available for just 45p.

For early risers, the Small Cooked Breakfast will be available for just £1.35, with the vegetarian equivalent available for only £1.25.

The half price offer is available at all UK Ikea stores - excluding its Order and Collection Points and its Ikea Hammersmith and Aberdeen OCP stores. However, selected dishes will also be available for half price at the Hammersmith site. To receive the discount, all you'll need to do is buy an eligible meal during the restaurant's opening hours and the discount will be automatically applied to the meal at checkout.

Karen Hughes, country food manager at Ikea UK and Ireland said: “We can’t wait to introduce our amazing half-price food offers to all our Ikea Family members dining at our restaurants, every Friday. What better way to end the week than a trip to Ikea, fuelled by a delicious, affordable, and hearty meal."

Full list of meals in the Ikea offer