Kiera Grealish, 22, is set to give birth to her first child with model boyfriend, Josh Murphy in August. The pair shared the news on Instagram adding it was a "dream come true"

Jack Grealish to become an uncle as sister announces pregnancy with model boyfriend

Jack Grealish is set to become an uncle when the football season ends, after his younger sister announced she is expecting a baby.

Kiera Grealish, 22, is set to give birth to her first child with model boyfriend, Josh Murphy in August. The pair shared the news on Instagram adding it was a "dream come true".

It comes just a week after they celebrated their four year anniversary. The couple wrote: "Baby murphy… a dream come true, half of me and half of you."

England star Jack, 28, is close to both his younger sisters Kiera and Hollie, 19, who was born with cerebral palsy. Aunty-to-be Hollie commented on the post saying she "can't wait" to meet her niece or nephew. Expecting dad Josh, is signed with Manchester modelling agency Nemesis.

In the gushing Instagram post, the couple shared photos of their first baby scan, posed up with a pregnancy test and baby booties, as well an adorable snap of Josh kissing Kiera's bump.

Jack's long term girlfriend, Sasha Attwood, 28, also shared her good wishes followed by a host of other England WAGs. Jordan Pickford's wife, Megan, Luke Shaw's partner Anouska Santos and Harry Maguire's wife Fern and his sister Daisy all shared their congratulations and surprise at the news.

Megan Pickford who recently gave birth to her second child, Ostara, with the Everton and England goalie wrote: "Congratulations angel".

The tight-knit family of the Manchester City winger describe his girlfriend Sasha as part of the family. The model/influencer who turned 28 yesterday celebrated with both Kiera and Hollie who described Sasha as their "other sister" in a post on Instagram.

Join our new WhatsApp community and receive your daily dose of Mirror Football content. We also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don't like our community, you can check out any time you like. If you're curious, you can read our Privacy Notice.