Peter Andre has been critical of Prince Harry but appeared to be changing his attitudes after the royal family has been rocked by a number of concerning health problems

Peter Andre has backtracked after dismissing Prince Harry and binning off his infamous autobiography without reading it.

The 50-year-old Aussie pop star says he has changed his mind about the 39-year-old royal and fears too many people have judged him without listening to his views. Prince Harry angered many fans in 2020 when he turned his back on the UK for a new life with his wife Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, 42, and their family.

The prince continued to lose fans as he continued to bash his family, and by extension the UK itself, through subsequent interviews and via his explosive autobiography, Spare. Now Peter has admitted he wrote off Prince Harry without listening to his side of events - but he may have changed his mind about him.

Peter, who was born in London, raised in Australia, and returned to the UK in the mid-1990s, says people have been too harsh on the prince. He has also spoken out in support of Meghan - with whom Prince Harry shares four-year-old son Archie and two-year-old daughter Lilibet.

Image: Samir Hussein/WireImage) Samir Hussein/WireImage)

Speaking on GB News, Peter declared: “When the whole thing started happening with Prince Harry and Meghan it was very easy to jump on the bandwagon and say that you didn't like him, and you didn't like what he was doing. I was one of those people that said I didn't want to read his book and someone pointed out to me, ‘Why don't you read his book first and then make your mind up?’ As time has gone on I’ve thought, are we just throwing things at him when we don’t know what is going on?

“Some people won’t like that opinion, they’ll say he’s bad, but do we really know what is going on in that family? A lot of people have been blaming Meghan but he has got his own voice and they are two separate people, but it is interesting to see both sides of this.”

Peter’s words come after reports suggested Prince Harry is waiting to return to royal duties, should King Charles III contact him to request he do so. The royal family has been hit with health issues in recent weeks with Kate, Princess of Wales, being incapacitated with a health condition that required her to undergo surgery and remain in hospital for weeks.

While the King was also treated for a prostate issue last month - and then left the UK concerned when doctors subsequently discovered he was suffering from a form of cancer, which he is now being treated for. On Friday, PageSix claimed Prince Harry is ready and waiting for King Charles to call him to make a return to royal duties.

A source told the outlet: “I have a hard time believing if his dad asks for his help that Harry would say no, I think he would try… I don’t think it’s something that Harry would ask [to do] on his own.”

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads.