A dog who missed his owner when they went out was captured on camera doing the sweetest thing - and it's caused people to say they'll never leave their pets again

This video may break your heart - as this lonely dog tries to comfort himself.

Dogs can truly change your world, and we would all do anything to make sure our four-legged friend is treated well. But one owner has vowed to never leave their dog alone again as they spotted him trying to comfort himself while they were out.

It's never nice to leave your dog alone at home and this tear-jerking video caught the lonely pooch going to get one of his owners shoes to cuddle with as he missed his owner while he was at work.

The clip, which was shared on Reddit, was captioned: "This surveillance camera catches the moment a dog took his owner's shoe and sleeps beside it showing how much he misses his owner while he was at work."

Image: REDDIT/Salty_Distribution84 WS) REDDIT/Salty_Distribution84 WS)

The video quickly went viral with hundreds of people flocking to comment on the Reddit post. One person said: "That broke my heart a bit! Needs a friend, I think. So lonely," while another wrote from the pooch's perspective: "Dear diary, my dearest human has once again vanished without a trace. All I have left to remember them by is a shoe, which I have taken to the couch to sleep with and remember them..."

Image: REDDIT/Salty_Distribution84 WS) REDDIT/Salty_Distribution84 WS)

Someone else replied: "I don't think I could go to work after seeing that," and a fourth user proclaimed: "That's it. I'm never leaving my dog alone again."

Others shared similar stories of the sweet things their pets did while they were out of the house. "My dog does it all the time with my slippers when I go out. If I'm out for too long he might go and get the other slipper too. When I come home I find her sleeping with one or two slippers," commented a different person.

A second added: "My dog takes one flip flop or one boot. It's quite funny and odd. When I first had him he would chew one flip flop so it would always break at the worst time when I was out somewhere! He doesn’t chew anymore just carries one to his bed when I am out for the day!"

Do you have an animal story to share? We want to hear all about it. Email niamh.kirk@reachplc.com