The Duke of Sussex's recent interview with Good Morning America has angered friends of the royal family who have slammed the Prince for discussing his father's illness on TV and accused him of using the recent cancer diagnosis to "publicise his own agenda"

Prince Harry may have alienated himself from the royal family and his father King Charles for good, as his latest bombshell interview appears to have infuriated Buckingham Palace.

He sat down for an interview with Good Morning America whilst spending three days in Canada for celebrations ahead of the 2025 Invictus Games. During the appearance, the Duke of Sussex opened up about his family life in Montecito, his father's cancer diagnosis, and the Invictus Games. In one interview answer he hinted at a possible reconciliation with his family in future as he explained, "I think any illness, any sickness brings families together."

Join the Mirror's SMS news service to get the biggest breaking stories delivered straight to your phone. Click here to subscribe.

READ MORE: Prince Harry 'will have to surrender Sussex title' as he tries to become 'US royalty'

In another answer, he spoke about his recent 24-hour return trip from California to the UK to see his father after the news of the monarch's cancer emerged, as he told GMA: "I love my family. The fact that I was able to get on a plane and go and see him and spend any time with him, I’m grateful for that."

However, Harry's tell-all answers have not had a warm reception from friends and sources close to the Palace who have slammed the interview as "sickening".

A royal source speaking to The Daily Beast said: "It seems Harry has taken it on himself to use the diagnosis to publicise his own agenda. If it wasn’t so sickening it would be funny. What really would have helped the family come together would have been if Harry had said he wouldn’t be taking questions about his father."

Another close royal family source told the publication that the royals are in shock that Harry keeps "making things worse" with his comments in interviews and to the media.

This isn't the first time that comments from Harry about the royal family and his relatives has caused upset,

The backlash comes as Harry and Meghan are facing Netflix pulling the plug on their deal after a "disappointing" four years, it has been claimed. In 2020 they signed a five-year contract with the streaming platform after they departed the Royal Family in 2020, in a deal that was rumoured to be worth an estimated £80million ($100million). Due to end in 2025, speculation has recently been rife over what could be next for the pair and it's thought they could be cutting ties with Netflix altogether.

Last month speculation was rife that the Sussexes could jump ship from Netflix to Paramount when the couple made a rare public appearance when they attended the premiere of Bob Marley: One Love in Kingston, Jamaica. The couple were seen posing on the red carpet together, which came after they were allegedly invited by the CEO of Paramount Pictures.

Lynn Carratt from Press Box PR told The Mirror at the time: "Their eyes will now be set on finding the next big multi-million-pound deal." She added: "It seems like Paramount could be a potential contender if they are close to Brian Robbins, the head of Paramount".

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .