Police called in armed backup after they were unable to get the savage dog under control and shortly afterwards locals reported hearing a shot ring out

Cops shoot dead 'dangerously out of control' dog as 3 people injured and collie mauled

A police marksman has shot and killed a “dangerously out of control” dog this morning, after it injured three people and mauled a collie.

Officers were called to the scene in East Kilbride this morning after the animal - believed to be a bulldog-type - attacked the collie dog at around 10.25am.

Police called for backup after they were unable to get the savage dog under control and had to call in armed units. Officers with guns arrived at the scene and shortly afterwards locals reported hearing a shot ring out, the Daily Record reports.

The Police Investigations and Review Commissioner (PIRC) will look into the incident, as it involved a firearm, and an investigation is underway to determine the breed of the dog.

Three people suffered 'minor injuries' in the incident, although is not clear whether they required hospital treatment.

A Police Scotland spokesperson said: "Local officers attended and attempted to restrain the dog which was dangerously out of control. Armed officers subsequently attended and the dog was shot dead by police.

Image: Google Street View) Google Street View)

"Three people reported receiving minor injuries during this incident. Enquiries are ongoing to establish the breed of dog and there will be a continued police presence in the area while enquiries continue.

"As with any firearm discharge, the circumstances of the incident will be referred to the Police Investigations and Review Commissioner (PIRC)."

One local man said: "Three armed police units arrived and cordoned off the area, then I heard a gunshot. Nobody really knew what was going on."

It comes just weeks after another bully-type dog was shot during an incident Hamilton, near Glasgow. Officers were called after the animal called Zeus launched an attack in the town's Tinto View.

Armed police were forced to taser and shoot the dog four times. A 48-year-old man was reported to the Procurator Fiscal over the incident, for alleged offences in breach of the Dangerous Dog Act.