Laura Woods, 36, was left living 'in real fear' after an obsessed football fan stalker sent her vile messages and packages for two years and threatened to kill her dog

A sinister female football fan left sports presenter Laura Woods living in fear after sending her warped messages threatening to killer her dog before ordering food to her door after finding out her address.

Terrified Laura endured two years of torment as Harneet Kaur targeted her on social media before stepping up her campaign of harassment. The stalker, 25, has been jailed and banned from contacting the TNT Sport star and 14 other people again after appearing in court.

Bibles and sexual health tests were also sent to her home during the sick bombardment, which began in June 2021 and lasted until September 2023. The period has 'enormous and devastating' effect on Laura's life and left her concerned to leave home and travel all over the country for her work. In July 2022, Kaur's iPad showed she had visited the road where her victim lived.

Image: FIFA via Getty Images) FIFA via Getty Images) Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

After an order of Krispy Kreme donuts arrived at her London property, Judge Talog Davies said in court that the TV star was initially "pleasantly surprised and thought it was a mistake or somebody being nice" so posted a picture on her Twitter account saying they had "made her evening".

But things soon got out of hand as Antonie Muller, prosecuting, told Wolverhampton Crown Court Laura "did not realise this was to be the start of a campaign against her" as, within a few days, a Starbucks order with a message "From your secret admirer and I'm not crazy" arrived on her doorstep.

More messages were soon sent and one claimed Laura was a "former prostitute who slept herself into a job". Kaur, banned from her team Liverpool's stadium for ticket touting, was arrested then re-arrested the summer and her devices were seized but that "didn't stop her". She sent vile messages to the former Sky Sports presenter, including a number that detailed how she would kill her dog.

Her actions had left the host with a "real fear" that the defendant would get close to her while she was working. Laura, who suffers from anxiety, has been forced to increase security both at home and while she is working following the campaign.

Balbir Singh, mitigating, said: "This defendant has never met Laura Woods, she has never spoken to her, she has never approached her – this is why this case is very different to many others that come before the courts." Kaur's "severe degree of autism which debilitated all aspects of her life" left her able to understand the impact on Ms Woods, the court heard.

The woman, who lives with her accountant parents in Walsall, west Midlands, pleaded guilty to stalking. Judge Davies jailed her for 14 months, handing her a restraining order with a demand not go within 500m of her London home. Prosecutors wanted her to be banned from every football ground in the country, but the judge considered this too harsh, the MailOnline reported. Laura is yet to comment on the outcome of the case.