Bobby Brazier and Ellie Leach have been hitting headlines in recent weeks as rumours of the nature of their relationship swirled around.

The Strictly Come Dancing stars met each other while taking part in the popular BBC1 dance competition last year. EastEnders actor Bobby, 20, was paired with professional dancer Dianne Buswell, 34, while this year's champion Ellie, 22, was partnered with Vito Coppola, 31.

When the show was still airing, fans were convinced there was something going on between Dianne and Bobby, with the latter claiming she was the 'love of his life'. In a recent interview, he also said that Dianne - who is dating Joe Sugg - is like a 'big sister' to him as he touched upon their age gap.

Once the show ended and the stars embarked on the Strictly Live tour, reports started emerging of Bobby going on secret dates with Ellie. According to sources, they were seen holding hands and enjoying a kiss or two as they travelled around the country.

Image: Instagram) Instagram) Image: Instagram) Instagram)

In recent days, Bobby was spotted getting cosy with Ellie and her mum after the final stop on the Strictly tour. He was seen laughing and chatting with her mum. At one point, Bobby even held Ellie's mum's hand as they joined Ellie's dad to head up to her room.

When asked about his and Ellie's relationship in a recent chat, Bobby seemingly denied they were dating by saying she's a 'lovely friend' of his. The Mirror talked to a body language expert about what's really going on between the two and the expert, Inbaal Honigman, says 'their body language shows they want to be' a couple.

"Interestingly, Bobby's photos with Ellie do show their faces pulling together, so they share a more intimate bond," she told us. "They do touch each other with the palms of their hands, which hold a lot of nerve endings, signifying a tender connection. It's uncertain whether Bobby and Ellie are together as a couple or not, but their body language shows that they would love to be."

Image: INSTAGRAM) INSTAGRAM) Image: Dianne Buswell Instagram) Dianne Buswell Instagram)

Inbaal also discussed Bobby's close relationship with Dianne. The two's undeniable chemistry and incredible talent helped them reach the final, but the glitterball trophy ended up going to Ellie and Vito. "Bobby's body language with Dianne is that of a solid, firm, protective friendship," the expert said.

"Their tour memories, shared on Dianne's Instagram, show many snaps of the two engaging in unflinching eye contact, which shows a true connection of love and respect. There's also a lot of evidence of the two wearing matching facial expressions, which shows that when they're together, they're both happy.

"They physically hold each other in a powerful way, muscles flexed, letting us know that they feel protective over one another and they do their best to keep the other one safe. Their photos together aren't exactly romantic. They have their arms around each other but we don't spot their faces close together, which would have shown a deeper love. We don't spy them touching each other with their fingertips, which would have shown a more sensitive connection."

Inbaal Honigman, celebrity psychic and body language expert, www.inbaal.com

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .