'Shameless' and 'The Bear' star Jeremy Allen White had a passion for the arts since a young age - and over the years, his acting roles led to him winning several awards

Jeremy Allen White is celebrating his 33rd birthday this weekend - and this year's celebrations will be extra special after he won the Emmy award for Outstanding Lead Actor for his role in "The Bear".

The Brooklyn-born actor, who became the new face of Calvin Klein with a billboard shoot in New York City last month, broke into major stardom thanks to the Emmy-nominated comedy series - but previously starred in other major shows. He was born on February 17, 1991, to Eloise Zeigler and Richard White, who were both theatre actors who moved to NYC to pursue Broadway careers.

After having children, his father started a business filming depositions while his mum worked in the education sector. Since a young age, Jeremy had an interest in the arts, studying ballet, jazz, and tap dance throughout elementary school.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Emmy winner Jeremy Allen White thanks friends amid 'tough year' following divorce

Image: Warner Bros TV) Warner Bros TV)

But when he was 11, he started thinking his middle school dance programme was not "serious enough" so he decided to pursue acting instead. After participating in cattle calls for movie, theatre and commercial shows, he got an agent. He was considering leaving high school but his parents insisted he stay until graduation while letting him intern at a casting agency on the side.

His first acting roles were in the movie "Beautiful Ohio" and the legal drama series "Conviction" and while talking about his early acting career, he said: "My identity was really, really wrapped up in my profession. If that wasn't going well, nothing was going well. If that was going well, everything felt really fantastic."

He attended the prestigious Professional Performing Arts School in the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood of Manhattan before landing his breakout role as Lip Gallagher in "Shameless". The series premiered in 2011 and he was cast in it almost immediately after leaving high school - then was on the show for 10 years, until 2021.

The role saw him move to Los Angeles at the age of 18 and said that while he "felt super isolated", he thought there was "something kind of romantic" about the loneliness he felt. He said performing on "Shameless" made him learn a lot "about how to behave as a person outside of an actor", adding: "We learned how to be, I think, decent people on that show, too."

Image: Warner Bros TV) Warner Bros TV)

In 2014, he was nominated for Best Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series at the Critics' Choice Television Awards in 2014 for his work in the show's fourth season. When the series finished, he said the experience was "incredible" but admitted he was relieved it had come to an end. He said: "I'm not sure if shows are meant to go that long."

During his time on "Shameless", he also appeared in other movies including "Twelve" (2010), "Bad Turn Worse" (2013) and "The Rental" (2020). But his most recent work, which saw him win multiple awards, was being cast in the lead role of the FX comedy-drama series "The Bear" in 2022, in which he portrays NYC chef Carmen "Carmy" Berzatto, who returns to Chicago to take over a failing sandwich shop that his brother left him after committing suicide.

Image: Copyright 2023, FX Networks. All Rights Reserved.) Copyright 2023, FX Networks. All Rights Reserved.)

The show's creator Christopher Storer said he chose Jeremy thanks to his "warmth and intelligence", and the actor said his "heart really broke" for his character. When he accepted his Emmy award in January, the actor was emotional and gave a special shoutout to his loved ones for sticking by his side during difficult year as he went through a divorce with his ex-wife Addison Timlin.

In the speech, Jeremy humbly said: "I am so proud, I am so full of gratitude, to be standing in front of you all," and continued: "Thank you to all those who stayed close to me, especially this past year. Thank you for believing in me when I had trouble believing in myself."

The actor's ex-wife Addison, whom she met when they were teenagers, filed for divorce from him after sharing three years of marriage. In an interview with British GQ, Jeremey reflected on his 2023 and said: "It's been insane. A lot of high highs, a lot of terribly low lows."

Image: calvinklein/Instagram) calvinklein/Instagram) Image: calvinklein/Instagram) calvinklein/Instagram)

The reason for the breakdown of their love remains unclear, but the former couple continue to co-parent together as they share young two daughters including their four-year-old Ezer and two-year-old Dolores. According to a source quoted by ET, Addison and White "were having trust issues during their relationship that ultimately led to their divorce."

The insider added: "They were attempting to work things out, but things became increasingly difficult for them, and they decided to split." Thanks to his role in "The Bear", he also won Golden Globes for Best Performance by a Male Actor in a Television Series - Musical or Comedy in 2023 and 2024.

Jeremy has also starred in new movie "The Iron Claw" alongside Zac Efron and Harris Dicksinson. The movie tells the story of the Von Erich brothers, who made history in the competitive world of professional wrestling in the early 1980s.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.