'We were searching for info on friend's death - but something didn't feel right'

A tragic accident claimed the life of a 19-year-old student - and now his death has been exploited by a growing band of 'obituary pirates' who spread false information online as clickbait.

Matthew Sachman, who fell onto the subway tracks in New York City on New Year's Eve, was tragically killed by an oncoming train. Within just a few hours, AI had written news articles about the incident and inaccurate obituaries for the teen quickly spread online.

Key identifying details in the fake memorials, such as Sachman's age and home state, were inaccurate, and others shockingly went as far as to claim he had been murdered - one stating that he had been stabbed at a subway station in the Bronx.

He and his friend had been messing around on the platform of the subway stop in Manhattan, when tragedy struck and he fell onto the tracks. The teen was instantly killed by a train coming into the station.

BREAKING, LATEST: Burnsville shooting victims named as city mourns two police officers and paramedic killed

However, his family said many of the stories published online were "completely wrong". "There were sites I'd never heard of, information that was completely wrong, it didn't make sense," a family friend explained to the New York Times.

"I was looking for the truth," Devan Mehrish, 19, one of Matthew's childhood friends explained. "We were trying to find out what happened, but we saw some weird things," David Lombardi, the owner of a nursery and furniture store in Nantucket where Sachman had previously worked a summer job. "I just stopped and thought, 'This doesn't feel right.'"

'Obituary pirating' is where scammers use AI technology to generate obituaries for trending names and collect precious ad revenue from the clicks.

Experts told the New York Times that content farming such articles would only generate around $100 a month from ad revenue and that clearly fake obituaries like Sachman's will only earn a penny or two, but AI makes it easy to make a lot and earn more.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US

A worrying number of YouTube videos also popped up with narrators speaking English, Urdu and other languages, sharing blatant misinformation about Sachman's death. Some referred to him as an actor or singer, and many perpetuated the rumour that he had been murdered.

"What these content farms do is monitor SEO and Google inputs all day and if they see a breakout, they seize on that and publish hoaxes as clickbait content," NewsGuard's AI and Foreign Influence editor explained.

"It all comes down to financial revenue. Capitalize on search results, what people are interested in, and publish fake news around that to direct people to their site and, in turn, get money for advertising."