The Environment agency warned flooding from rivers and surface water was "probable" as more rain was forecast to fall on already saturated ground after flooding in several areas this weekend

The Met Office has warned of flooding with more wind and rain to come this week following downpours that saw major flooding hit some areas.

Outbreaks of rain and windy weather are due to push through the UK in the coming days, forecasters have warned, beginning on Monday when a band of rain will push south and east across the country.

Towards Monday afternoon things will have cleared a little but more wet and windy weather is due to arrive from the north-west on Tuesday. Temperatures will remain mild, in double figures as the soggy blanket of cloud keeps the UK from getting too cold.

Into Wednesday and the real deluge is set to hit with a wide band of rain set to soak the whole Britain possibly leading to further floods. There are currently 61 flood warnings active in England, meaning flooding is expected, and 247 flood alerts, meaning flooding is possible. Meanwhile in Wales there are currently 7 flood alerts.

Large parts of the country have been battered by heavy rain after torrential downpours sparked flooding and travel chaos over the weekend. Roads have been cut off, leaving rural communities with disrupted connections to the outside world as rivers burst their banks causing misery for thousands of Brits.

Image: JASON BRYANT/APEX) JASON BRYANT/APEX)

White Barrow in Devon saw 72mm of rainfall between 3pm Saturday and 8am Sunday while Priddy in Somerset got 52mm and Croeserw, West Glamorgan saw 48mm. The River Sheppy burst its banks today causing chaos in the Somerset village of Croscombe, with homes and businesses flooded and widespread disruption to travel in the area.

Forecaster Craig Snell said: 'The ground is already a little bit more saturated across England and Wales compared to Scotland and Northern Ireland, so they'll be a little more sensitive to the rainfall.Some parts could see disruption, transport may be a little bit delayed and if you're driving on the roads your journey may take a little bit longer due to spray and road closures.”

Image: JASON BRYANT/APEX) JASON BRYANT/APEX)

The Environment agency warned that the flooding may continue into next week, saying: “Local flooding from rivers is probable across parts of the Midlands and the South of England on Monday and continuing during Tuesday and Wednesday for parts of the South of England. Land, roads and some properties could flood and there could be travel disruption.

“Further local flooding from rivers and surface water is possible on Wednesday across parts of the South West of England and the West Midlands. Local groundwater flooding possible for the next 5 days in the Malton area of North Yorkshire. Land, roads and some properties may flood and there may be travel disruption.”