Bafta Awards 2024 host David Tennant brought along an unlikely co-host to the show- Bark Ruffalo, the adorable pet dog of pal Michael Sheen.

The Scottish actor opened up the proceedings with a clever sketch about minding Michael's furry friend. Fans got to see a mock video call between David and his Good Omens co-star Michael, in which David was seen at home with a grey kilt placed in the background.

As soon as the call started, Michael quickly said: "I don't have time for pleasantries David, some of us are big in America." The star then tried to arrange to drop off Bark Ruffalo on Sunday morning, but Doctor Who star David couldn't commit due to his hosting duties. Michael reminded him that he had agreed to do it and added: "And I can't leave him with the neighbour because he peed in their kitchen."

Image: BBC) BBC)

This prompted Georgia, Tennant's wife, to humorously comment: "Whereas we are desperate for him to pee in our kitchen?" Michael left the call asking David to sort out the problem, resulting in him needing to send hurried messages to other celebs to find someone to look after the dog.

American actor Stanley Tucci joined the Zoom call and at first, said yes to helping out, but then laughed at David for thinking he was being serious. "And the Bafta for catching on very quickly goes to," Stanley teased as he pointed at David. Then David rang up Yesterday star Himesh Patel who acted like his video was frozen until someone walked behind him.

When the Scottish icon spotted this, Himesh let out a big sigh and said: "Look, I know you're just calling because you want something," and then pretended his screen was frozen again.

David then called Tom Hiddleston and told him about his new idea. "The pitch is dog-sitting for Michael Sheen," he explained. Loki star Tom said: "Wow. OK, yeah, interesting. So we're going for, life? Funny?" He got into the idea of making a movie about Michael's dog while David looked puzzled.

Image: BBC) BBC)

"Did your agent tell you I wanted to talk to you about a film?" David wondered. "Obviously. Unless you're actually calling me to dog sit for Michael Sheen," answered Tom. When the call ended, David attempted to call Dame Judi Dench - who confused David for Michael. When asked if she could take care of Bark Ruffalo, Dame Judi responded: "He pees everywhere, and anyway, I should be watching the Bafta Film Awards with a big glass of Champagne." Dame Judi noticed the kilt in the background, and David continued: "Wait and see".

The show started with David walking into the hall through the crowd, wearing the kilt and carrying Bark Ruffalo and other things for pets like a blanket and a lead. Everyone laughed when David saw Michael in the front row, and they had a little fight about who should look after the pet before Sheen gave in and let his friend start talking to everyone without the dog.

Those watching the coverage on the BBC at home loved the canine's cameo, with one declaring on Twitter (X): "NO WAY HAS DAVID TENNANT COME TO THE BAFTAS WITH HIS DOG DAVID AND MICHAEL SHEEN ALREADY STOLE THE SHOW WITH THIS ADORABLE DOG #DavidTennant #BAFTAs #EEBAFTAs." Another added: "david tennant and michael sheen's dog?? this baftas is already off to a brilliant start-"

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTubeand Threads .