Former Inbetweeners Emily Atack has shared with fans that she is struggling with 'hideous' health issues as she prepares for the birth of her first child with scientist partner Dr Garner

Actress Emily Atack has revealed that she is struggling to cope with two health issues as she marks 21 weeks of her first pregnancy.

The 34 year old star who first shot to fame playing Charlotte Hinchcliffe in the E4 comedy series The Inbetweeners, has been sharing updates with her journey on social media after going public with her baby news in January. The TV star is expecting her first child with step-cousin Dr Alistair Garner.

The experience has been far from plain-sailing with Emily battling painful heartburn and exhaustion ahead of giving birth. Taking to social media, Emily posted a picture of the TV drama One Day and claimed this is the only thing soothing her ailments.

She wrote: "Week 21 of pregnancy. Getting me through this week of utter exhaustion and hideous heartburn are these two." She also tagged the stars of the Netflix romance drama, Ambika Mod and Leo Woodall in the post. Emily and her boyfriend Dr Alistair recently moved in together ahead of their child's arrival. The star only announced she was expecting her first child at the end of December last year and is due to give birth in April.

Image: emilyatack/Instagram) emilyatack/Instagram) Image: @emilyatack/Instagram) @emilyatack/Instagram)

At the time, she posted on Instagram: "Hello Everyone, it’s been a little while but I’m back with some news. I’m delighted to share with you all that we’re having a baby!! I’ve never been so happy and utterly terrified at the same time. "Please go easy on me."

She added: "Every day is mixed with thrill, fear, joy, hysteria, topped off with a lot of vomiting - a bit like when you’ve just stepped off of the Oblivion at Alton Towers on a hangover. I’ve got to know my body on such an insane level. It’s made me appreciate the one I’ve been given SO much, I’m doing my absolute best to make it a home for the little squid I’m growing. We can already sense the baby is reclined on a mattress of peanut butter and jam sandwiches in there, demanding more chocolate buttons. I’m so happy to be writing all of this to you all."

Image: Netflix) Netflix)

Emily continued: "You’ve always stuck by me through the years, do stick around to watch me enter my mum era. Christ. Let’s go." According to The Sun, Emily's boyfriend Dr Alistair is the son of her late uncle, Dr Stephen Garner, who married the star's aunt Jane Robbins in 1994.

A source told the publication: "Emily and Alistair consider themselves more family friends but they are cousins who aren’t related by blood. They grew up together and have always got on really well, but last year they started to get closer."

The insider says their relationship has been a natural process and they both have deep rooted feelings for one another. The source added that both are looking forward to welcoming their first child together. Earlier this month, Emily shared that she was suffering from sickness but ginger biscuits were helping her through it. She told fans: "Overwhelmed by all the messages of support, thank you. I'm stuck at home and very sick. So your kind messages really do cheer me up. So do M&S ginger biscuits, turns out."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok,Snapchat,Instagram,Twitter,Facebook,YouTubeandThreads