Meghan Markle has made one major change to her face amid her very glam Californian makeover, which comes after the Duchess was in Canada with her husband for a trip

Meghan Markle has made one major change to her face, with the stark alteration noticeably visible while on her recent trip to Canada with her husband Prince Harry.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex recently travelled from Montecito in California to Canada for the Invictus Games Vancouver Whistler 2025's One Year to Go celebrations. While in Vancouver, the couple stepped out on several occasions to meet with fans, take part in demonstrations, and promote the upcoming games.

Meghan was spotted on several occasions looking as radiant as ever, but something about the Duchess' face was a little different. For years, Meghan has sported the same makeup look, which comprises of dewy skin and natural freckles. She has also long-sported thin eyebrows.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Meghan Markle and Prince Harry 'cannot be trusted', says Prince William

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images) Image: WireImage) WireImage)

But while on her trip to Canada, Meghan sported noticeably fuller brows - something she has been gradually introducing into her makeup look over the past couple of months. Meghan's brows were fuller when she attended the Bob Marley: One Love movie premiere in Jamaica last month, with her brows now seemingly staying this way going forward.

Meghan could be seen looking sensational in Canada last week, with the Duchess seen on the slopes in ski gear, as well as at a wheelchair curling demonstration while donning a chic side ponytail and expensive camel-coloured cape, with her bushy brows on full display.

This isn't the only transformation Meghan has undergone of late though, because the Duchess of Sussex's life transformation has been quite drastic over the last few years. She has gone from greeting fans in the rain to having an almost £1m wardrobe and attending glitzy events on the regular.

For all the latest news on the Royal Family, read The Mirror's live royal blog.

After marrying Prince Harry in May 2018, the couple resided in Windsor, England for a couple of years. But in 2020, they decided to step down as senior working royals and move to America.

The couple then traded royal walkabouts for glitzy events, with them showing up at them more frequently than ever before in recent times. Last month the pair attended the aforementioned Bob Marley movie premiere in Kingston, while last week they were in Canada to promote the 2025 Invictus Games.

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .