This Morning presenter Alison Hammond was left 'gutted' after being snubbed by the BAFTAS this year after hosting the awards alongside Richard E Grant last year

Alison Hammond has broken her silence regarding this evening's Bafta ceremony after being 'snubbed' by Bafta bosses.

The This Morning presenter, 49, is thought to be heartbroken by the snub, after hosting the swanky bash last year alongside actor Richard E. Grant. While Saltburn actor Richard is inside the Royal Festival Hall in London right now, Alison is seemingly watching from home and looking back at old snaps.

Taking to her Instagram Stories as new host David Tennant opened the 2024 Bafta Awards, Alison reposted a snap taken with a fan from last year’s Bafta’s. The original poster captioned the shot: "Good luck to everyone working on Bafta tonight. Here’s a little throwback of me and the legend that is Alison Hammond living our best lives last year."

Image: BAFTA via Getty Images) BAFTA via Getty Images) Image: instagram/@alisonhammond55) instagram/@alisonhammond55)

Alison hosted the glitzy annual awards last year, but in a surprising twist, wasn't offered the gig for the 2024 ceremony, with Doctor Who star David Tennant taking her place. A source has previously claimed that Alison was "gutted by the news", making her realise "how cut-throat the TV world can be." They told Closer Magazine: "Alison had really hoped that she could do the BAFTAs for another year and even become a main host."

"She's gutted not to be asked back especially as she has built up such a great rapport with all the A-listers in Hollywood who seem to love her too. Alison often suffers from imposter syndrome and thinks that everything could get taken away from her at a moment's notice, despite all her success. She's really grateful for everything she has going on right now, but she's aware how cut-throat the TV world can be."

Alison was delighted to co-host the 2023 Baftas, excitedly saying at the time: "I'm so excited to be hosting this year's EE Bafta Film Awards with THE Richard E Grant. We're going to have a lot of fun bringing the glitz and glam of backstage to everyone watching at home around the world. From hanging out with the stars to celebrating the biggest night for cinema, and joining the discussions with film fans, get ready for good vibes only."

The awards happening tonight will be led by award-winning actor David who also expressed his joy about taking on the role. He said: "I am delighted to have been asked to host the EE Bafta Film Awards and help celebrate the very best of this year's films and the many brilliant people who bring them to life."