The Prince of Wales, Prince William, is said to believe that Meghan Markle and his brother Prince Harry 'cannot be trusted', which comes amid claims Harry would return to royal duties

The Prince of Wales believes that his sister-in-law Meghan Markle and his brother Prince Harry "cannot be trusted", it has been claimed by a source close to Prince William.

Sources close to William have said that in the wake of King Charles' cancer ­diagnosis, he would be the one to take on more duties himself if needed while it is understood he believes Harry and his wife Meghan “cannot be trusted”.

This comes after a source close to Harry said "he would try" to help out if his father asked him to. Not only this, but Harry is alleged to have told friends he would step into a temporary royal role while Charles is unwell following several "warm exchanges" since the King's illness was diagnosed.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Prince Harry's televised interview 'was for PR' but he is 'keen to build bridges'

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

Prince William and his father the King have been having regular one-to-one meetings in Sandringham, which is where the monarch is recuperating after weekly cancer treatment in London. A source close has said there is “no chance” the heir would allow his brother back.

"Whatever has been discussed between William and the King is private, but it is absolutely and categorically clear that he (William) would not allow Harry to return. He thought it was a bad idea at the time and he’s even more clear now.

For all the latest news on the Royal Family, read The Mirror's live royal blog.

"If anyone is going to take on more duties it will be William and that isn’t even on the agenda for now. His main focus is on his father’s health, his family and what is best for the monarchy. There is a zero per cent chance Harry is coming back in any capacity," the source added.

This comes after Prince Harry gave a televised interview on Good Morning America while in Canada promoting the 2025 Invictus Games. Speaking to Will Reeve from GMA, Harry said: “I love my family. The fact that I was able to get on a plane and go and see him and spend any time with him – I’m grateful for that.”

When Will suggested that the King's illness could have a “reunifying effect” on the family, Harry was then asked: “Is that possible in this case?” to which he replied: “Yeah, I’m sure.”

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .