Coronation Street's Kate Ford, known for playing Tracy Barlow, has been a big name on the show since 2002. Before her, Dawn Acton played Tracy until Kate stepped in and turned her into one of the street's most memorable baddies.

Tracy is still causing drama on the soap and is now stuck in a love triangle. She's married to Steve McDonald but isn't happy with him being so lazy these days.

At the same time, Tommy Orpington, a former football star, has come back and started an affair with Tracy because she's upset with her marriage. Kate is really close to the other actors on the show and sent a lovely message to Abi Webster not long ago.

Kate likes to post about her life on Instagram and just put up a picture from a chilly walk outside. She was all wrapped up against the cold. Her Coronation Street friends were quick to tell her how great she looked. Georgie Taylor, who plays Toyah Habeeb, commented "Gorgeous!" and Sally Carman, who is Abi Webster, said: "Beauty." Kate replied with a sweet message: "Love you. Miss you, see you soon I hope xxx."

Image: Instagram/@realkate1) Instagram/@realkate1)

Kate's life at home is much quieter than her dramatic soap opera role. She lives in South London with her son Otis, whose dad is producer Jon Connerty. Even though Kate and Jon are not together anymore, she has some famous neighbours. She once said, "Last year, I spent [Christmas] with Kate Thornton at her house and she made the most ridiculous amount of food I've ever seen in my life."

Kate and Kate Thornton live on the same street and their sons are best mates. They often visit each other's homes. On Instagram, Kate shows bits of her life and recently told everyone about a new pet cat they got. She posted a cute picture and wrote: "Our new family member, we are in love ...#SirWalter."

But Kate also shares the tough stuff on Instagram. She has a condition called endometriosis which can be really painful. She talked about having pain while working on Corrie. She shared: "Filming #itvcorrie this was a few weeks ago at a time that I was struggling with my #endrometriosis."

Image: ITV) ITV)

She sent out a virtual hug to others who were dealing with the same thing. Kate has a serious form of endometriosis, where tissue grows in places it shouldn't, like near the ovaries. In June 2020, Kate shared on Twitter: "As someone with grade four endometriosis, I realise how much I rely on my massage therapy to help with this. Due to Covid, I've not been able to visit my therapist for three months. My body is sore I'll never take this therapy for granted again xx"

Kate first got into the spotlight in a Beatles music video. She was in the video for 'Free As A Bird' that came out in December 1995. The song was made by John Lennon at home in 1977. You can spot Kate in a part of the video that looks like a street from the 1960s. This was just the beginning of her great career on TV. Most people know Kate as Tracy from Coronation Street, but she's also been in other shows like 'Blue Murder' and 'Missing'.

Kate loves being on Coronation Street and doesn't plan to leave. She said: "It's good for me to be at Corrie now, I have good work, and good scripts, and I don't want to lose that. When you don't have young children it's easier to make braver choices, but I'm not saying this is an easy option, it's hard work, and I really enjoy it."

"I'm not a particularly ambitious person. I'm not one of those people who thinks 'by this time I want to have done this and that', the idea of that freaks me right out. Life's too complicated."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTubeand Threads .