Oppenheimer star Cillian Murphy lives a very quiet life away from the spotlight with his wife and two sons as he ditches internet and mobile phone connections

Cillian Murphy has only given rare insights into his life away from the camera after admitting he "hates" fame.

The Oppenheimer star, 47, lives a quiet life with his wife and two sons as he shuns the limelight in his day-to-day life. Despite being up for Oscars and BAFTAs, he has shared his near embarrassment over the fact he can command millions of pounds for his roles. Cillian has appeared in blockbusters Batman Begins and Dunkirk as well as smash hit Peaky Blinders.

His performance as J. Robert Oppenheimer has made him one of the hottest stars at the moment, yet he remains incredibly humble. Cillian is married to wife Yvonne McGuinness since tying the knot in 2004. They got together after meeting at one of his rock band's gigs back in 1996.

Image: Golden Globes 2024 via Getty Ima) Golden Globes 2024 via Getty Ima)

The couple went on to welcome sons Malachy, 17, and Aran, 16, and recently returned to Ireland to bring up their kids. They live in a stunning period home which has no internet. Cillian spent £1.5 million on the gorgeous home in the much desired Monkstown area of south Dublin back in 2015.

It features six double bedrooms, a drawing room and the original fireplaces. Other period features include high ceilings, large bay windows and a beautiful wrought iron fireplace in the living room. Their family home is just five minutes from the sea and near-by yacht clubs, parks and a number of highly sought after schools.

Cillian shuns technology in his home life, having no phone or internet connection. Oppenheimer producer Emma Thomas, who is director Christopher Nolan’s wife, explained: “He’s the most analogue individual you could possibly encounter” - revealing she tried to call him at his home one afternoon to tell him he had landed the title role in the film.

While, speaking to GQ, he shared how his support from his wife has helped his career. Cillian said: “That work-life balance thing is hard. I have an amazing wife and I couldn't do this without her and her understanding. But it is a struggle. I think it is for any dad whose work takes him away, which it generally does, and which consumes him, which my work does.“

Cillian has discussed how he has struggled with his fortune, telling the Guardian: "I'm really lucky. I feel embarrassed by it sometimes. I'm just a [expletive] actor. There are doctors and nurses and [expletive] people that work. I struggle with that. I mean, actors are overpaid, you know? It's nice when you get paid, when you're young, and you've gone from having no money, but the Catholic guilt kicks in immediately, and I'm like, 'It’s all going to go wrong. You don’t deserve this'. And I don’t." The Irish star reportedly made between $5-10 million (£3.8-7.6 million) for his role in Oppenheimer.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .