The Duke and Duchess of Sussex, Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's Netflix deal is 'likely to be pulled', according to an expert who believes that there are more suitable options out there

Exclusive: Meghan and Harry's Netflix deal 'likely to be pulled' as more suitable option emerges

Meghan Markle and Prince Harry's Netflix deal is "likely to be pulled", according to a public relations guru, which comes as a more suitable option for the pair emerges.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex signed a five-year contract with streaming platform Netflix after they departed the Royal Family in 2020. The deal they signed was worth an estimated £80million ($100million). Due to end in 2025, speculation has recently been rife over what could be next for the pair.

There have been many reports and much speculation that Netflix could decide to pull the plug, with them not believed to be keen to renew their contract with the couple next year, following on from it being claimed that they feel the past four years with the platform have been "disappointing".

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Meghan Markle and Prince Harry 'cannot be trusted', says Prince William

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images) Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

And now public relations guru Lynn Carratt from Press Box PR has said that she thinks "it could be quite likely that Netflix will pull the plug on their [deal] with Meghan and Harry when it ends in early 2025". She added: "We know they are still working on a couple of unscripted shows and a TV show for Netflix as well as the film Meet Me at the Lake, but disappointingly they have only released three projects in three years, the docuseries Harry and Meghan, which broke streaming records: Heart of Invictus and Live to Lead about Inspiring World Leaders.

"The latter two were met with mixed reviews by the viewing public. And while the couple does seem to be upping the ante on producing shows for Netflix this year - I fear it could be a little bit too late."

Lynn then revealed a better option for the pair, revealing to The Mirror: "I also feel maybe Paramount would be a better-suited streaming service for Meghan and Harry as I feel they’ll be allowed more creative freedom on the projects they choose.

"If they sign a deal with Paramount in 2025, I think Meghan will likely want to revisit her passion project, the animated series ‘Pearl’, which Netflix canned before production even started."

For all the latest news on the Royal Family, read The Mirror's live royal blog.

She then said that she thinks the Sussexes "will want to move more into producing films and TV series especially if their debut film adaptation of Meet Me At The Lake is successful on Netflix". Adding: "There is also talk of Meghan making her directing debut in 2024, and again, I think she’d love the opportunity to direct some shows for Paramount and build her profile as a director."

Concluding her analysis, Lynn went on: "In the past year or so Harry has started to move out on his own and work on projects independent of Meghan and I believe he’d love to produce a documentary on Africa.

"It’s a place that Harry calls his second home, it’s the place in the world where he feels safe and, he has close friends. His first holiday with Meghan was to Botswana and, he is extremely passionate about conserving wildlife populations which I’m sure he’d love to highlight in a documentary."

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .