Engelbert Humperdinck has reminisced over the fond times with pal Elvis Presley, including the time the Suspicious Minds singer brought a concert to a standstill by doing one iconic move

Engelbert Humperdinck and Elvis Presley were so close that the king of rock n roll once described the Brit crooner as someone who reminded him of the brother who died at birth.

The pair were a making waves in the bright lights of Las Vegas, when they first go to know each other. And it was on stage where Engelbert, whose real name is Arnold Dorsey, said the real character of Elvis came out - even when it wasn't his turn to perform.

In an exclusive chat with the Mirror, the 87-year-old star detailed the close bond the pair formed and opened up on entertaining moments that will forever live on in his memory. Engelbert said with a smirk: "One fond memory is when he came to see me and he came all dressed with his cape on and everything like that."

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Engelbert Humperdinck on Elvis Presley - stolen look, brother links and unique traits

Image: Engelbert Humperdinck) Engelbert Humperdinck)

Diving deeper into the meeting, which took place while Engelbert was performing on stage in the Riviera Hotel in Sin City, he said: "I introduced him and he stood up on the seat and spread his cape like Batman. The audience went berserk and it took me about 10 minutes to quiet them all down. I had to shout out 'Elvis this is my show'. He was quite the character. As far as a showman, the was nobody like him."

Engelbert went on to explain how Elvis' showmanship was nothing like what the main man behaved like away from his performances. "He was very down to Earth person," Engelbert revealed. "He liked all the simplicities of life. You know, his favourite sandwich was a banana sandwich and I have to tell you, I love it. And burgers, he loved burgers, which I love too. He was very down to earth, he didn't have caviar and all that business, you know?"

The Release Me singer also joked the Mississippi native stole his iconic sideburns from him. "I had it first," he claimed. "He took it from me and I told him so."

The veteran star went on to share the vital life traits he was taught by the legendary Suspicious Minds singer. "He taught me humility," Engelbert confessed. "When you see him work, you realise the traits that he had. I recognise them very easily because there was a lot of honesty in his performance and he never took his image seriously. As a performer, for me, he was the best I've ever seen, so I stole a lot from him."

Engelbert was speaking alongside his friend and singer Emin ahead of the release of their Elvis cover. The pair teamed up to sing Help Me Make It Through The Night on Emin's new album titled Now or Never.

Elsewhere on the album, Emin also collaborated with former Pussycat Dolls songstress Nicole Scherzinger to produce a touching rendition of Love Me Tender. The album was created with the help of 16x Grammy award-winning music arranger David Foster.

Emin said he chose to produce the album in a bid to put his "own twist" on legendary tracks. He told us: "For me, I love Elvis. I always had an Elvis song or two in my show for the last 20 years and was wanting to do it [an album]. To to have your own twist on it, but at the same time not to lose the DNA of those songs, was crucial and I think David has done tremendous work on delivering that result."

Emin's new album Now or Never is out now featuring the new single "Help Me Make It Through The Night" with Engelbert Humperdinck.

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.