Greta Gerwig's Barbie was the highest-grossing film of 2023 but failed to win a single Bafta Award on Sunday evening, as Oppenheimer and British movie Poor Things cleaned up

Barbie, Killers Of The Flower Moon and Saltburn all went home empty-handed from the Bafta Awards on Sunday evening.

Greta Gerwig's film about a Barbie doll having a life crisis was the top-earning movie of 2023 and had many award nominations, but failed to receive a gong at the Baftas. Leading actress Margot Robbie missed out on the Best Actress award to Emma Stone for Poor Things, while the script by director Greta Gerwig and her husband Noah Baumbach lost to the courtroom drama Anatomy Of A Fall.

Ryan Gosling's Ken lost in the supporting actor category to Robert Downey Jr for Oppenheimer. Gerwig wasn't nominated for best director at all. Killers Of The Flower Moon, a Western crime epic by Martin Scorsese, also didn't win anything, even though it was up for Best Film, Best Supporting Actor for Robert De Niro and several other awards.

Image: Gareth Cattermole/Getty Images f) Gareth Cattermole/Getty Images f) Image: Getty Images for BAFTA) Getty Images for BAFTA)

Saltburn, a film about an Oxford student who becomes obsessed with a richer classmate and spends a summer at his huge estate, has been a big hit online but didn't win a single Bafta, despite being nominated for outstanding British film, leading actor for Barry Keoghan, supporting actress for Rosamund Pike, supporting actor for Jacob Elordi and best score.

However, the film did get a moment in the spotlight with the performance of Murder On The Dance Floor by Sophie Ellis-Bextor. The song, released 22 years ago, had a scene-stealing moment in the final stages of the film and has since re-entered the charts. Ellis-Bextor was joined by a team of dancers in sequins as she took to the stage in a dramatic black and orange gown with a full skirt as she performed the disco hit.

Should Barbie have bagged a BAFTA? Vote in our poll HERE to have your say.

Some big winners tonight included Anatomy of a Fall in Original Screenplay, The Boy and the Heron for Animated Film, Poor Things for Special Visual Effects, Best Production Design, Best Costume Design, Best Hair and Make-up and Best Actress, and Oppenheimer's Cillian Murphy for Best Actor.

Doctor Who icon David Tennant looked dapper in a kilt as he hosted the ceremony and guests even had incredible performances from Hannah Waddingham, who sang Time After Time during the In Memoriam segment. You can read the full list of Bafta 2024 winners here.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTubeand Threads .