Dancing On Ice contestant Amber Davies broke down in tears after the judges' feedback following her emotional routine dedicated to her mother on Sunday's show

Dancing On Ice's Amber Davies broke down in tears after the judges' feedback on Sunday's episode.

During the latest episode, the contestants had to perform a routine to a song which had a special meaning to them and former Love Island star Amber, 27, emotionally decided to skate to Spice Girls' Mama in dedication to her mother, who proudly watched her in the audience.

However, following the routine, Amber, who has previously topped the leaderboard, didn't get the scores she was hoping for as she received 8.5, 8.5, 8 and 8 from the judges, giving her a total of 33 points. Talking after the scoring, a tearful Amber admitted: "I feel like I just wanted to do so well for her and it just got the better of me a little bit. I'm just so thankful I got to do that for her!"

Image: ITV) ITV)

To which host Holly Willoughby pointed out her mum had been so proud watching in the audience, adding of the routine: "It was beautiful!" Viewers were quick to disagree with the judges' scores, taking to Twitter, now X, to share their thoughts.

One person said: "Amber’s the strongest skater in this competition, that performance was worthy of TENS!!!! #DancingOnIce", a different account put: "What’s their beef with Amber? I thought she did amazingly!!" while another added: "Disappointing scores for Amber @dancingonice #dancingonice thought she deserved more."

The hit skating series returned earlier this year with a slew of new celebrities taking to the ice with their professional partners after weeks of rehearsals. The line-up this year is Ricky Hatton, Adele Roberts, Amber, Claire Sweeney, Eddie the Eagle, Greg Rutherford, Hannah Spearritt, Lou Sanders, Miles Nazaire, Ricky Norwood, Roxy Sha hidi and Ryan Thomas.

Image: ITV) ITV)

Former boxer Ricky, 45, was the first to be eliminated alongside professional partner Robin Johnstone. Since then, Hannah, 42, Claire, 52, Roxy, 40, and Lou, 38, have all been eliminated alongside their professional skating partners with Ricky, 40, being eliminated on Sunday night. This means Adele, 44, Amber, 27, Eddie, 60, Greg, 37, Miles, 28, and Ryan, 39, are still in the hit ITV competition as they battle it out to be crowned the winner.

Holly is hosting the series, alongside new co-presenter Stephen Mulhern, who has replaced Phillip Schofield. Holly, 43, has made a sensational return to television for Dancing On Ice after she had recently stepped back from the spotlight following her decision to leave This Morning in October after 14 years.

Question marks over her future as host of Dancing On Ice remained until December 27, when ITV bosses finally confirmed she'd be back to front the programme alongside Stephen, 46.

Dancing On Ice returns next Sunday at 6:30pm on ITV and ITV X. Follow Mirror Celebs and TV on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .