BBC Radio 1 fan favourite Jordan North will be stepping down from the Drivetime show and Jamie Laing will replace him, it has been announced by the network today

Jordan North keeps his love life largely under wraps - but he did once confess to a kinky secret in the bedroom.

It was announced today that after 10 years on BBC Radio 1, York-born Jordan would be stepping down from the network, and replaced by Jamie Laing. The station said Jordan has "been behind some of the most hilarious and entertaining moments on air over the years and has been a constant source of inspiration for younger presenters".

The 34-year-old has interviewed some of the biggest names in the world during his two years on the Drivetime slot, including Prince William and Princess Catherine, alongside his co-host Vick Hope. As fans speculate about Jordan's new role, the Mirror takes a look at his life away from radio and his romance history...

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images) Image: Help I Sexted My Boss) Help I Sexted My Boss)

Jordan grew up in Burnley, Lancashire, in a military family and began his journey into radio whilst at university in Sunderland. He later bagged a gig as a researcher on BBC Radio 5 Live and began working as a presenter for Capital Manchester and Rock FM. In 2014, he began covering for Radio One, filling in for other presenters.

Since 2018, Jordan has hosted a podcast called Help I Sexted My Boss, and in 2021, he landed the Drivetime show. When the news was made public, Jordan said in a statement: "I am absolutely chuffed to be making the move over to Radio 1 daytime and even happier to be working alongside Vick."

That same year, speaking ahead of his time Down Under, Jordan revealed that he was single. He said: "I am single at the moment. But that is not the reason why I am going in. I just want to have fun and this is something that will stick with you forever. The fact I am going to be doing it doesn't seem real."

Aside from that admission, the radio host has kept his love life largely under wraps and hasn't disclosed any dates in the public eye. In 2021, he confessed to the Mirror: "I've always tried to keep things pretty private. It's sometimes quite unnerving when people are asking about your personal life. But you know what, it's part and parcel of the job."

Jordan previously revealed that he's never lived with anyone, but has referred to a mystery ex-partner. It's believed he isn't married and doesn't have kids, but is a proud godfather to his best mate's daughter. "How do all of my friends have kids, yet the biggest life decision I've ever made is going from skinny jeans to a slim fit?" he joked.

But he did once reveal a kinky confession on air - that he lived to regret. His podcast co-host William Hanson told the Metro in 2020: "At the start of series five, one of our listeners was constantly sliding in my DMs asking 'Is Jordan kinky?' Anyway, I thought I'd ask Jordan on the podcast.

"He then admitted he had on a previous occasion been tied up with a dressing gown chord. He regrets that now. We even talked about selling Jordan North dressing gown chords on tour because it's going to haunt him."