Taylor Swift set to 'enjoy romantic holiday with boyfriend Travis Kelce in Queensland' during break from Australian tour. The NFL legend dropped a hint about it on his podcast.

Taylor Swift looks set to 'enjoy romantic holiday with boyfriend Travis Kelce in Queensland' during a break from her Australian tour.

NFL star Travis sent rumour mills into overdrive that this could be happening on his podcast. The Super Bowl hero dropped a huge hint he could be packing his bags and joining the pop sensation Down Under on last week's episode of his New Heights podcast.

He teased he would 'venture to an island real soon' with the best ones being south of the US. Now fans are convinced the duo will escape to The Great Barrier Reef before the You Belong with Me singer's Sydney shows.

READ MORE: Kanye West hides behind a mask as Bianca Censori worries about seeing Kim Kardashian

Image: Getty Images for TAS Rights Management) Getty Images for TAS Rights Management)

It comes as Taylor and her boyfriend Travis Kelce are "excited for the future." The duo is said to be adjusting to a "new reality" after his triumphant Super Bowl win, with it claimed that the lovebirds "feel happy and excited for what lies ahead".

The 34-year-old hitmaker was in attendance at the sporting event earlier this month at the Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas to support her boyfriend Travis Kelce, also 34. Taylor cheered on Travis and the Kansas City Chiefs when they won 25-22 against the San Francisco 49ers at the event.

Meanwhile Taylor has given extraordinary insight into a romance with an ex. She revealed she was left lonely during her six year relationship with ex-boyfriend Joe Alwyn.

Taylor and Joe broke up in early 2023 after six years together, a few months before Taylor settled down with Kansas City Chiefs player Travis Kelce. The split from actor Alwyn came as a shock, but Taylor has now hinted that the romance wasn't always rosy as she revealed she wrote some of her latest material whilst being 'lonely' during quarantine for the COVID-19 lockdown, at which time she lived with Joe.

Performing at her sold out Eras tour in Melbourne, the Shake It Off singer introduced song Betty, as she told fans that she painted herself as a "ghostly Victorian lady" before joking that it took her away from being a "lonely millennial woman covered in cat hair, drinking my weight in white wine."