It was recently announced that Meghan Markle will be creating a new podcast through her partnership with Lemonada Media and a PR expert shares how it could be a success

Meghan Markle urged to 'peel back the mask' and be less 'self-absorbed' to win over fans

It's no surprise that Meghan Markle has her fair share of critics, but with her newest venture, she might be able to sway some of them.

Meghan has announced a new partnership with Lemonada Media where she will produce a new podcast. There's no word about the name of her podcast or what it will be about, but the Duchess of Sussex has said she's "proud" of her partnership.

Previously she and Prince Harry's production company, Archewell Productions, had a deal with Spotify where Meghan's first podcast was hosted. Less than a year after the deal was made, Spotify axed the deal.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Real reason Meghan and Harry will never attend BAFTAs as they snub event for second year running

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

But now Meghan has been given a second shot with her latest deal, and PR expert Laura Perkes thinks Meghan has to learn from her experience with Spotify for her new podcast to do well. In order to win over the masses, Laura thinks that Meghan needs to be more "relatable" as some people believe she is "too self-absorbed."

According to the Express, Laura said: "Many listeners found her Archetypes podcast too self-absorbed, so this is one of the biggest lessons she can learn from her new podcast deal."

"One of the reasons why so many people loved her Suits character is because Rachel Zane was so relatable. Although Meghan played the character well, the reality was very different to what she portrayed on the show," she added.

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images) Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

The expert believes that Meghan needs to work on how the public perceives her. "I think she needs to bring the softer side of Meghan out so that we get a glimpse of the real person, not the polished facade of a Duchess and Hollywood star," Laura said.

"Most successful podcasts are successful because the hosts and presenters keep it real," she added, "They peel back the mask and give us an insight into who they are as people, what their values and beliefs are and the topics they're passionate about. Listeners want to feel like other people are in the mud with them, going through the same challenges and navigating life the same as they are."

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.