When Meghan Markle first started dating Prince Harry, she was eventually introduced to his royal relatives, but Harry revealed that during her first meeting with the Queen, she became confused when it came to Prince Andrew

When meeting a new partner's family, it can be hard to remember all of the new names and faces - just ask Meghan Markle.

That's because Prince Harry once revealed that in the early days of his romance with Meghan, she was left confused by one family member in particular - Prince Andrew. Harry reveals the story in his controversial memoir, Spare, as he recounts Meghan's first meeting with his late grandmother, the Queen. The meeting came at Andrew's home Royal Lodge, which he shares with ex-wife Sarah Ferguson, who had to teach Meghan how to curtsy at the last minute.

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

However at the end of the get together, Harry revealed that Meghan asked a telling question about his uncle, who turns 64 today - and even thought he might not be a relative. Explaining how the Queen got up to leave after her chat with Meghan, Harry wrote: "My uncle Andrew, seated beside her, holding her handbag, began to escort her out. After a moment Meg asked me something about the Queen’s assistant. I asked who she was talking about." When she replied "the man who walked her to the door," the penny dropped for the prince who realised she had meant the Queen's second son.

Andrew no longer takes part in public life following a car crash interview on BBC Newsnight about his connections to paedophile Jeffrey Epstein. He was also later stripped of his military affiliations and royal patronages with the approval of his mother, the late Queen.

Earlier this month, both he and Harry were told personally of King Charles' cancer diagnosis and later Buckingham Palace confirmed a number of the King's forthcoming public engagements will have to be rearranged or postponed as he has started treatment straight away, with the likes of Prince William and Queen Camilla poised to pick up the slack.

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

It is not anticipated that Counsellors of State, those who are able to fill in for the King on constitutional matters, will need to be appointed. It is hoped the King will continue with some of his duties, but how much he can do will depend on the progress of his treatment and the orders of his doctors. However, in the event a monarch cannot undertake their duties as sovereign on a temporary basis due to illness, two or more Counsellors of State can be appointed by Letters Patent to act in their place.

Provisions for Counsellors of State are made under the Regency Acts 1937 to 1953 and those who can currently stand in for Charles include Queen Camilla and the four most senior adults in the line of succession over the age of 21 - William, Harry, Andrew and Princess Beatrice. In 2022, the King asked Parliament to add his youngest brother Edward and sister Anne as extra Counsellors of State so they can deputise for him if need be, and the addition was fast-tracked into law.

The legislation did add Anne and Edward to the list but stopped short of removing Andrew and Harry, who are no longer working members of the family. Andrew was forced to step down from public life following a car crash interview on BBC Newsnight about his connections to paedophile Jeffrey Epstein. He was also later stripped of his military affiliations and royal patronages with the approval of his mother, the late Queen. However, the House of Lords later heard only "working members" of the royal family would be called upon to act as Counsellors of State - so this means Harry and Andrew would not be asked to step up.

At the same time as the Kings' cancer diagnosis, Andrew's former wife Sarah Ferguson, who lives with him at Royal Lodge, is also getting treatment for skin cancer. The disease was discovered after several moles were removed when she was treated for breast cancer in June. One of the moles was found to be cancerous and doctors are working to establish if it was caught early.