Jordan North's former co-presenter Vick Hope has opened up about his sudden exit from BBC Radio 1 and revealed that the broadcaster didn't get a 'proper send-off'

Vick Hope has hinted that Jordan North's exit from BBC Radio 1 was more than unexpected.

On Friday, it was revealed that Jordan would be leaving Radio 1 after ten years at the station, leaving fans completely heartbroken, with many claiming they won't tune in anymore. Now, Jordan's co-presenter and close friend, Vick Hope has broken her silence on his exit.

It's since been speculated that Jordan, 34, will be moving to rival station Capital to front their Breakfast Show alongside former Radio 1 colleague Chris Stark and Sian Welby. But Vick, also 34, has revealed that Jordan's exit was very sudden as he didn't get a proper send-off, unlike previous Radio 1 stars.

Image: @vicknhope/Instagram) @vicknhope/Instagram)

Taking to Instagram, Vick shared an emotional message to address his exit. Sharing a collection of images of the pair over the years, she penned: "Absolutely gutted, to be honest. Our @jordannorth1 you're a true @bbcradio1 legend, a dreamy co-host, and an incredibly special friend. There are too many memories for these collages, but what a laugh we’ve had. Thank you for sharing your wit and your warmth; your stories, your skill and your spirit.

"Going Home with Vick and Jordan has been such a mad, chaotic ride, I've loved being on this journey with you for a little bit, and will always support and cheer for you as you embark on the next chapter. You're about to soar, everyone is going to love you as much as we do, just please look after yourself there. And keep the tunes coming."

Image: @vicknhope/Instagram) @vicknhope/Instagram) Image: David Fisher/REX/Shutterstock) David Fisher/REX/Shutterstock)

Hinting about Jordan's exit being unplanned, she went on to write: "I'm so sad we didn't get a proper on-air send-off, but I guess (inadvertently, accidentally appropriately) killing off Judge Jordan this week will have to do as a radio goodbye. To our listeners, thank you for joining us every day and being the heart and soul of the show. Let's welcome lovely, brilliant @jamielaing with open arms and all have a bloody excellent time together."

Jordan has also addressed his exit, branding Vick his "partner in crime", while also thanking previous colleagues including Clara Amfo, Scott Mills, Nick Grimshaw and Katie Thisleton. He went on to thank listeners who have "been really generous" and made him feel welcome over the years, before hinting that things are looking up for him.

"I'll be back soon, and can't wait to see you all again," he said as he concluded his emotional statement. Fans and colleagues have since responded, with one writing: "The absolute best." While Melvin Odoom typed: "Big love to you Jordan from day one you have been an absolute gent so wishing you all the best on your next venture."

Follow Mirror Celebs onTikTok,Snapchat,Instagram,Twitter,Facebook,YouTubeandThreads.