The Duke of Sussex appeared 'much more upbeat' following small signals from his wife Meghan Markle that appeared to be her giving a sign of approval after the Invictus Games dinner banquet went well

Prince Harry appears to have been seeking the "approval" from his wife Meghan Markle whilst appearing for the Invictus Games countdown in Canada.

The couple, who wed in 2018, have been in Canada for three days as they mark a year to go until the 2025 Invictus Games. The three day event culminated in a One Year To Go Dinner which saw a lavish banquet and performances from Canadian singer Michael Bublé which all appear to have gone down well, but for the Duke of Sussex it appears the only reaction he's interested in is from his wife Meghan.

A body language expert has noted that Harry appeared to be seeking "approval" from his wife, and appeared "much more upbeat" after the former Suits actress gave her spouse a "raised-brow glance of approval" after Bublé called him a "visionary".

Join the Mirror's SMS news service to get the biggest breaking stories delivered straight to your phone. Click here to subscribe.

READ MORE: Harry looks 'pensive' while Meghan is 'beaming' as they head to final banquet in Canada

Image: AP) AP)

Speaking exclusively to The Mirror, body language expert Judi James said: "Harry and Meghan appear to have topped their Invictus promo off with a glamorous, celebrity-style appearance that included some emphatic signals of pride and endorsement from Meghan to her husband while Harry looked thrilled and slightly overawed to hear Michael Bublé dedicate the line ‘I did it my way’ to him."

The Duke and Duchess were pictured together prior to entering the banquet dinner, with seemingly contrasting expressions. Judi explained: "Caught en route it did look as though Harry was in a more pensive mood while Meghan threw a beaming, cheek-rounded smile beside him but with Bublé’s public endorsement and Meghan’s raised-brow glance of approval at him that seemed to say ‘you did it!’, Harry looked animated during his speech and much more upbeat trading comments with Bublé."

As part of the performance at the banquet dinner, Canadian crooner Michael Bublé told the audience how happy he was to be able to "show Harry and Meghan how beautiful this place is". The singer also changed the lyrics to the classic song 'My Way' to adapt them for the Invictus Games as he sang: "Nothing tames, Invictus Games, you play them your way', 'One man, life-changing plan, he does all he can, he’s a visionary".

Image: Alamy Live News.) Alamy Live News.)

The touching gesture went down well with Harry and Meghan, with the couple appearing blown away by the change and Harry shaking the singer's hand after his performance.

Whilst the three-day trip to Vancouver to mark the countdown to the 2025 games has gone well, it's not been without difficulty for the Duke. After he gave a bombshell interview to Good Morning America, he's been hit with further backlash as royal insiders have slammed the comments he made about his father's cancer diagnosis and his rush trip back to the UK to see King Charles. In one interview answer he hinted at a possible reconciliation with his family in future as he explained, "I think any illness, any sickness brings families together."

Slamming the interview and the comments made by Harry, a royal source told The Daily Beast: "It seems Harry has taken it on himself to use the diagnosis to publicise his own agenda. If it wasn’t so sickening it would be funny. What really would have helped the family come together would have been if Harry had said he wouldn’t be taking questions about his father."

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .