Six in 10 UK renters feel depressed about paying their rent or that rent payments negatively impact their ability to meet basic expenses, according to the London Renters Union

A single mum who suffered a major mental breakdown after having to move seven times in 10 years is urging for action to fix the UK renters’ crisis.

Hannah McCormack, 36, who is now living in Cornwall with her ten-year-old daughter after moving in with her parents, has been unsuccessful for 597 bids for a council house in London. She has been applying for around four years but a dire social housing shortage has left her battling for properties sometimes alongside more than a thousand other bidders.

Polling by the London Renters Union, seen by the Mirror, shows three in five UK renters feel depressed about paying their rent. The same proportion said rent payments negatively impact their ability to meet basic expenses or save for the future. A quarter of renters also said renting had a negative impact on their physical health.

Ms McCormack’s housing horror began when she and her then-partner, who were living in shared accommodation in London, decided to move after she fell pregnant with daughter Mo. Unable to afford a place by themselves in the capital, they left their friends, community and life behind and started renting a house in Exeter. They were forced to move after not long when the landlord wanted to put the place up for sale.

From there they moved around Exeter to Southend and back to London, living in houses, flats, studios and a cramped loft space above a pub. “My relationship broke down at this time. The stress of then trying to find somewhere to live as a single parent - I feel like I'm still recovering from it,” she said.

“I had a proper mental breakdown when I broke up with my ex-partner and I know that trying to find accommodation was a huge part of that. Every single place I was calling, every single place I was emailing, was gone or they were saying it was six months up front that I needed or because I needed two bedrooms for me and my daughter, they were saying I needed to earn maybe like £65,000.”

She ended up moving in with her parents in Cornwall and now lives in a separate property in the same village but hopes to return to London when she can. Ms McCormack is urging for more investment in social housing as she said authorities are paying so much money to private landlords in housing benefits.

According to research by the New Economics Foundation (NEF), the Government is expected to spend £70billion on housing support for private tenants over the next five years - which will go straight into the hands of private landlords. This is more than six times the £11.5billion ministers are expected to spend on affordable housing in the five-year period from 2021 and 2026.

Ms McCormak said: “I get housing benefit as a single parent because realistically, if I didn't have housing benefit, on my wage, I couldn't afford to have a house with my daughter. There is just this looming feeling constantly, especially under a Tory government. I know they probably wouldn't take away the housing benefit but they're consistently trying to make things harder.”

But she emphasised she’d like to see taxpayer money used more efficiently on social housing. “[Authorities] are paying private landlords - for the people that are struggling to find housing - so much money in rents, deposits and in continued housing benefit rather than putting it into the social housing system,” she said.

A spokesman for the London Renters Union, said: “It is becoming more difficult than ever before to live a good life in the private rental sector. Insecurity from rising rents and the threat of unfair eviction hangs heavy over the heads of all renters, especially those living in areas like London.

“After the government sold off our council housing, millions of us are now trapped in an extortionate and insecure renting system. It is difficult to put down roots in our communities or plan for the future when you could be forced to uproot your life with little notice because your landlord has raised the rent or served a no-fault eviction notice.

“A housing system run primarily for private profit is failing to meet our basic needs. We need the government to follow the lead of cities across Europe and act now to control rising rents to take the pressure off millions of struggling renters."

YouGov interviewed 628 adults online in the UK on January 17.