Landlords told The Mirror they are being hammered by soaring energy bills as well as rising business rates, supplier costs and high VAT

Exclusive: Struggling Brit pubs beg for help as 750 UK boozers set to shut in next few months

Struggling publicans say the government must do more to save British boozers amid a tidal wave of closures.

British Beer and Pub Association data has shown that 509 UK pubs called last orders in 2023. And the BBPA says 750 more could shut in the first half of 2024.

Landlords told The Mirror they are being hammered by soaring energy bills as well as rising business rates, supplier costs and high VAT.

Samantha Bainbridge, 35, took over The Greyhound in Riccall, North Yorks, with her husband two years ago but now worries every day about losing her livelihood.

She said: “The energy prices are crippling. When we came in to run the pub we were given an estimate of £500 a month for our electric bills but that has now gone up four-fold.

Image: Jacob Reader) Jacob Reader)

“Food costs from suppliers have also risen, for example a bag of chicken which was £10 is now £20. And we’ve just had to put our drinks prices up because we were hit with another price rise from the brewery.

“Since we opened we’ve not been making money and we worry about having to close up every day. We haven’t had any help from the government whatsoever.”

Tom McNeeney, of The Oxford Pub in Rochdale, Greater Manchester, said the pub struggles despite being well-supported by the local community.

The 34-year-old added: “This is an epidemic hospitality-wide and pubs are on the front line. We’re on the edge of a total collapse of the industry with a government content to look the other way.” Campaign for Real Ale national chairman Nik Antona said: “The licensed trade is in turmoil.

“The perfect storm of spiralling costs of goods and employing staff, rising energy bills, government help with business rates being cut, and customers continuing to tighten their belts means that our much-loved locals are at risk of disappearing forever unless meaningful support is given.”

John Fitzpatrick called last orders in December 2022 after five years of running the Crown & Anchor in Llanidloes, Mid Wales. The 56-year-old said: “Even if we’d have had a good December, the next two months when the pubs are quieter would have led to more problems.”

John said publicans need to see more positive action from the Government. He added: “In particular, VAT reductions, so pubs can compete with the supermarkets. Why would you go and spend £18 on a bottle of wine in the pub when you can pay £7 and have it at home? Punters aren’t seeing that value in venues anymore.”

Emma McClarkin, chief executive of the BBPA said: “Pubs are at the heart of our communities, but the vital social and economic value they bring to this country will continue to be lost without action from Government at the Budget. Beer duty must be cut by 5%, which would create 13,000 jobs.

“Business Rates need long-term reform, and VAT for pubs must be cut to 12.5% to allow our sector to become an engine of economic growth for Britain.”

A Government spokesperson said: “We recently extended measures to support pubs and hospitality, including offering a 75% discount on business rates up to £110,000 and providing tax relief for the sector worth nearly £2.4billion.

“We have also frozen alcohol duty until August 2024 and through the Brexit Pubs Guarantee, we remain committed to ensuring there will always be a lower duty rate for draught products.”