British actor Hugh Grant had a scene-stealing turn as a tiny orange Oompa-Loompa with green hair called Lofty in the musical film, which served as a movie prequel to Roald Dahl's beloved children's book Charlie And The Chocolate Factory.

Hugh Grant had everyone at the Bafta ceremony smiling with his funny Wonka rhymes.

The British actor won rave reviews thanks to his performance as an Oompa-Loompa named Lofty from the new movie about Willy Wonka's early days. Hugh channeled the role once again on Sunday, as he appeared at the Bafta Awards using rhymes just like the Oompa-Loompas do in the film with Timothee Chalamet, who plays young Mr. Wonka.

Before he gave out an award on stage, all the big movie stars clapped for Hugh when he said: "Doompa Da De now the best director category." Then he made a joke with more rhymes about how long movies are and showed clips of the ones up for awards before saying Christopher Nolan won for best director.

Image: Getty Images for Warner Bros.) Getty Images for Warner Bros.)



"Hugh Grant, with English Humour, at its very best! And the BAFTAs aren't too shabby either," one BBC viewer quipped on Twitter (X) following Hugh's rhyming cameo on Sunday night. Another added: "This was one of my favourite moments from the #Baftas; Hugh Grant is firmly in his "don't give a toss" era.

"Hugh Grant was FUNNY," another happy viewer declared online, as one Twitter user suggested: "You can tell he hated every minute of this #BAFTAs #eebaftas2024 #hughgrant." "truly the best part of the night," another announced, as one Hugh fan added: "He was also so right about films being far too long these days!"

In movies like the new 2023 Wonka and the old one from 1971 with Gene Wilder, the Oompa-Loompas sing songs. Hugh sang a bit like the Oompa-Loompas: "Oompa Loompa doompety-doo, I've got a tragic tale for you, Oompa Loompa doompety-dee, If you are wise you'll listen to me" and then told his story to Chalamet's character, Wonka.

In the first movie, the Oompa-Loompas sing about the children who don't behave. The song goes: "Oompa, Loompa, doompa-dee-dee, If you are wise, you'll listen to me, What do you get when you guzzle down sweets? Eating as much as an elephant eats, What are you at getting terribly fat? What do you think will come of that? I don't like the look of it."