Bridgerton star Phoebe Dynevor has been nominated for the 2024 EE Rising Star BAFTA and it seems her famous mum, Coronation Street star Sally, was her plus one for the glitzy event

Coronation Street star Sally Dynevor was a proud mum on Sunday as she arrived in London to support her daughter, Phoebe, at the 2024 BAFTAs.

The 60-year-old soap legend is mum to 28-year-old Phoebe who is one of the 2024 EE Rising Star Award nominees. She has been nominated for her role in gritty Netflix film Fair Play which won her critical praise.

Sally - who has played Sally Metcalfe in the long-running ITV soap since 1986 - looked elegant in a black gown as she stepped out to support her daughter. Phoebe, meanwhile, looked dazzling in a white silk dress with a plunging neckline.

The mother-and-daughter duo joined some of the biggest names in film for the glitzy awards bash which is taking place at London’s Royal Festival Hall on the Southbank. Fans will be able to watch the ceremony on the BBC from 7pm - where Phoebe will discover if she has snagged the Rising Star Award.

Image: Getty Images for BAFTA) Getty Images for BAFTA) Image: Gareth Cattermole/Getty Images f) Gareth Cattermole/Getty Images f)

When her nomination was revealed in January, Phoebe gushed: “Being recognised by the EE BAFTA Film Awards for the EE Rising Star Award is a testament to the hard work of the entire team on ‘Fair Play’ who brought this film to life. I am truly grateful for this recognition and excited to continue challenging myself with new roles and projects. Thank you to BAFTA and EE for listing me alongside this year's wonderful nominees.”

She will battle for the gong alongside The Bear actress Ayo Edebiri, Saltburn star Jacob Elordi, How To Have Sex star Mia McKenna-Bruce, and Talk To Me scream queen Sophie Wilde.

Jane Millichip, CEO at BAFTA, said: “I am delighted to celebrate the exceptional talent showcased by this year’s five nominees for the EE Rising Star Award. These remarkable individuals represent what BAFTA and the EE Rising Star Award stand for as the future of the film industry, embodying innovation, dedication, and a commitment to storytelling that captivates audiences worldwide. I look forward to seeing who will take home the award on 18th February.”

While Phoebe is nominated as a rising star, she is not new to the world of acting. Indeed, she has been landing roles on screen since 2009 and became an international star following the success of the Netflix smash Bridgerton - which began streaming in 2020.

In an interview with Elle Magazine earlier this year, she insisted her success has not been handed to her. She said: "I didn’t get success overnight. It seems that way with Bridgerton but it’s been a really long journey to get here and that’s what makes the BAFTA nomination all the more gratifying. I did drama at school and auditioned for a film, The Golden Compass, when I was 11. I didn’t get the role, but I enjoyed the experience and wanted to keep going. My second audition was for a BBC drama TV series called Waterloo Road, and I got that."

77th British Academy Film Awards - hosted by David Tennant - will air on BBC One and via BBC iPlayer at 7pm on Sunday 18 February 2024.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads.