Prince William is said to believe that 'nothing has changed' between him and Prince Harry amid the pair's alleged feud as the Duke of Sussex considers resuming royal duties

Prince William believes 'nothing has changed' with Prince Harry and he 'can't be trusted'

Prince William thinks that "nothing has changed" with Prince Harry, it has been claimed, amid reports that the Duke of Sussex would happily resume royal duties if asked by his father.

Earlier this week, it was reported that source close to Harry said "he would try" to help out if his father asked him to. Not only this, but Harry is alleged to have told friends he would step into a temporary royal role while Charles is unwell following several "warm exchanges" since the King's illness was diagnosed and revealed to the world.

But according to a royal source, Prince William isn't keen on the idea of his brother returning to the royal fold, with the Prince of Wales believing that "nothing has changed" between them.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Meghan Markle and Prince Harry 'cannot be trusted', says Prince William

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

A royal source told the Express: "There's no way that the Prince of Wales will wear it. Harry may well want to step back into a royal role but as far as his brother is concerned nothing has changed.



"Prince William has enough on his plate at the moment. His father is being treated for cancer and his wife is recovering from abdominal surgery. He simply doesn't have the bandwidth for this."

This comes after sources close to William said that in the wake of King Charles' cancer ­diagnosis, he would be the one to take on more duties himself if needed while it is understood he believes Harry and his wife Meghan “cannot be trusted”.

For all the latest news on the Royal Family, read The Mirror's live royal blog.

A source close has said there is “no chance” the heir would allow his brother back. With the source continuing: "Whatever has been discussed between William and the King is private, but it is absolutely and categorically clear that he (William) would not allow Harry to return. He thought it was a bad idea at the time and he’s even more clear now.

"If anyone is going to take on more duties it will be William and that isn’t even on the agenda for now. His main focus is on his father’s health, his family and what is best for the monarchy. There is a zero per cent chance Harry is coming back in any capacity," the source added to The Mirror.

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .