Prince William looked 'painfully alone' as he made an appearance at the 2024 BAFTAs without his wife Kate Middleton, while Prince Harry recently had a fun trip to Canada

Prince William and Prince Harry couldn't have looked more different as the brothers stepped out in public following their father's cancer diagnosis.

The Prince of Wales, who is president of the British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA), attended this year's BAFTAs without his wife after Princess Kate was forced to withdraw from the glitzy event as she recovers from surgery. William looked downcast as he arrived at the Southbank Centre’s Royal Festival Hall.

His appearance comes after the Duke and Duchess of Sussex recently spent time in Canada as part of the Invictus Games countdown. They enjoyed taking part in plenty of activities and were even seen having fun on a double date with Michael Bublé and his wife Luisana Lopilato. Body language expert Judi James said Harry and William acted very different on their outings.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Prince Harry given stark warning over any future reunion plans with the Royal Family

Image: PA) PA)

Speaking about William's BAFTAs appearance, she told The Mirror: "This was a royal 'Ken without his Barbie' evening for William who looked painfully alone without Kate beside him at what is usually one of the most dazzling appearances of the year for the couple.

"There are some signals here that hint at the pressure William has been under with both his wife and his father's recent illnesses. His brow looks furrowed and there seem to be dark smudges under his tired-looking eyes.

"When he smiles it involves a puckering of the muscles of the lips and his teeth look slightly clenched." She also said Williams rubbing of his hands when talking about the Princess of Wales suggested "inner tension or anxiety".

Image: AFP via Getty Images) AFP via Getty Images)

The expert added: "William was also seen throwing beaming smiles at times but there were also subtle signals that might feel he is carrying the weight of worry and of responsibility on his shoulders right now." Judi said William's body language seemed worlds away to his brother's.

She told us: "William was of course professional and charming but his body language looked a world away from his brother Harry’s during his Canadian trip. Trying out the sporting equipment in sensational style or being serenaded and flattered by Michael Bublé, Harry often looked elated and playful. Hand in hand with Meghan or on the receiving end of admiring and supportive glances from her he managed to appear upbeat as he focused on promoting the Games."

Her comments come after Harry admitted he has more trips planned to the UK following his brief visit with King Charles earlier this month. During an appearance on Good Morning America, Harry was asked if the monarch's cancer diagnosis could have a "reunifying effect" amid their feud, Harry said he is certain it will.

"Yeah, I'm sure. Throughout all these families I see it on a day-to-day basis the strength of the family unit coming together. I think any illness, any sickness brings families together," he told the host.

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.