The Duke of Sussex has voiced his hopes that he can reconcile with his family and support them, yet palace sources have insisted he won't be accepted back as a working royal

Prince Harry has 'zero per cent chance' of being allowed to rejoin the Royal Family

Prince Harry may not be granted a welcome return to royal life and palace duties, even after claims that he hopes for a future reconciliation.

The Duke of Sussex is reportedly open to returning to duties temporarily to help out while King Charles undergoes cancer treatment, but any possibility has already been ruled out by the palace according to sources. Prince Harry, who stepped down as a working royal alongside his wife Meghan Markle in 2020, has voiced that he hopes to smooth things out with his relatives yet sources at the palace have claimed there is 'zero per cent chance' he will be allowed back.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Prince William won't entertain Harry's royal return because 'he has enough on his plate'

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images) Image: Canadian Press/REX/Shutterstock) Canadian Press/REX/Shutterstock)

Palace sources have told The Sunday Telegraph that there is 'no way back' for Harry to rejoin the royal family fold. The Duke is thought to have offered to step in on royal duties to help whilst his father is ill, with the royal household insistent that they don't need his help.

Whilst the King has pulled back from public duties to rest, his wife Queen Camilla and the Prince of Wales have stepped up to take over duties alongside other senior royals. The comments come after a palace source also told The Mirror there is 'no chance' of Prince Harry returning as his brother would not allow it because he believes his brother and Meghan 'cannot be trusted'. The source claimed: "It is absolutely and categorically clear that he (William) would not allow Harry to return. There is a zero per cent chance Harry is coming back in any capacity."

Image: Samir Hussein/WireImage) Samir Hussein/WireImage)

Another royal source told the Daily Express: "Harry may well want to step back into a royal role but as far as his brother is concerned nothing has changed. Prince William has enough on his plate at the moment. His father is being treated for cancer and his wife is recovering from abdominal surgery. He simply doesn't have the bandwidth for this."

A source close to Harry, 39, confirmed: "Harry is ready and willing to help and genuinely believes it would work well for both parties. In his view, it wouldn’t be dissimilar from what was proposed back in 2020, with a hybrid model of working. With the King’s illness, there is perhaps more of a reason for those options to be considered."

The comments come after Harry admitted he has future visits to the UK planned to see his father after the monarch was diagnosed with cancer. The Duke of Sussex made the admission during an interview with Good Morning America, but didn't give any information about when the visits would take place.

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .