Prince Harry has shared and confirmed how he found out about his father King Charles' cancer diagnosis, which comes after sitting down for a rare tell-all chat on American television

Prince Harry has shared and confirmed how he found out about his father King Charles' shocking cancer diagnosis earlier this month while chatting on American television today.

The Duke of Sussex has today sat down with a Good Morning America presenter for a rare interview. Speaking in the televised chat, Prince Harry confirmed how he found out about Charles' cancer, and how he got the news from the monarch himself.

The King was diagnosed with cancer earlier this month after receiving hospital treatment for an unrelated issue. At the time of Harry's brief trip following the shock news, a source close to the Duke of Sussex told The Mirror: "The Duke did speak with his father about his diagnosis."

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Prince Harry already has plans to return to the UK to see his family after brief visit

Image: GMA/Twitter) GMA/Twitter)

And now Prince Harry has given more of an insight into how he found out about his father's cancer. When asked how he found out about the King's condition, Harry explained: "I spoke to him."

Will Reeve, the GMA presenter chatting to Harry, then asked: "And what did you do next?" Harry replied: "I jumped on a plane and went to go see him as soon as I could."

Harry then went on to say that he feels lucky to have been able to visit his father following the diagnosis and announcement. "Look I love my family. The fact that I was able to get on a plane and go and see him and spend any time with him I'm grateful for that." When asked if the diagnosis could have a "reunifying effect" amid their feud, Harry said he is sure that it will.

While chatting to Will in the televised interview, Harry refused to comment on the King's condition and said "that stays between me and him". But he did however reveal that he has plans in the pipeline to make a return to the UK soon to visit his family.

Harry addressed possibly returning to his homeland of the United Kingdom again soon, when he said: "So my family and my life in California is as it is. I have got other trips planned. That would take me through the UK or back to the UK, so you know, I'll stop in and see my family as much as I can."

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .