David Tennant's wife Georgia took to her personal blog in 2018 to discuss how she felt after she was told she had cervical cancer. Thankfully, it was removed before the disease could spread

David Tennant's wife Georgia once revealed she planned her own funeral following her cervical cancer diagnosis.

The 39-year-old, who married 2024 BAFTA Awards host David in 2011, found out about the cancer before significant damage was done. However, she started planning her funeral after seeing some abnormalities in her test. In a 2018 post from her personal blog, she urged women to book smear tests so that they can avoid similar situations.

Georgia got a smear test and said it saved her life as it "stopped, beat and cut out" her cervical cancer before the disease could spread. She shared a snap of herself standing in a hospital room while wearing a hospital gown. She said: "Here I am on 22nd February 2018. Although 'tis indeed a fetching look, if you'd like to learn more about why you should never miss a smear test please read the story attached in bio. #cervicalscreeningawarenessweek."

The mother-of-five continued: "Before I'd made it up upstairs to tell my husband, I'd started planning my funeral. Having kids takes you to that place pretty quickly I find."

Image: Dave J Hogan/Getty Images) Dave J Hogan/Getty Images)

She opened up about one of her hospital visits and said the doctor told her she had CIN2 - which is also known as pre-cancer. According to Macmillian, CIN 2 means two-thirds of the thickness of the cervical surface layer is affected by abnormal cells. There is a higher risk the abnormal cells will develop into cervical cancer.

Doctors performed a cervical excision on the star and, thankfully, got rid of the abnormal cells. Speaking about the results, she said: "The lovely doctor called yesterday. Results are back. It was cancer. They've got it all but it was cancer. Survived cancer without ever realising I had it. As you can tell I’m still processing this, it's quite a thing to get your head around.

"My betraying little cervix had begun an attempt to kill me off and by a stroke of baffling luck I had stopped it, beat it, cut it out before it had a chance to make it out of the starting gates (that’s dog racing speak for 'hadn't spread beyond the layers they'd already removed')."

Georgia continued: "Survived cancer without ever realising I had it. As you can tell I'm still processing this, it's quite a thing to get your head round. The swirling storm cloud of 'what ifs?'. I'm currently half terrified child, half superhero." Finishing her post, she urged others to take the smear test as she talked about the importance of it.

"From borderline changes to cancer to cancer-free in mere months. It really could have been a different story. One I will be forever grateful I didn't have to tell," the actress said. David once reflected on his relief doctors caught the cancer in time. Speaking to The Daily Telegraph: "At least we were spared the prospect of living with, ‘You’ve got this, and can it be caught?’ But I still have these flashbacks of ‘What if you hadn’t…?’ I don’t think I acknowledged at the time how serious it could have been."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .