The Grand Tour host Jeremy Clarkson hit out at his partner Lisa Hogan as they filmed scenes for Clarkson's Farm in a row over their weekend plans

Jeremy Clarkson showed off his fiery side when his girlfriend Lisa Hogan suggested an activity that he was not entirely on board with.

Lisa tried to convince the grumpy TV star that wild swimming should be their weekend activity of choice on Saturday morning and afternoon.

But instead of embracing the idea of a refreshing dip, Jeremy barked at Lisa to "get out" of the water and head to the pub. The exchange occurred while filming an episode of his Amazon Prime's reality TV show Clarkson's Farm.

Lisa was seen taking a swim while protecting her blonde tresses with a swimming hat but this was clearly not an activity Jeremy, 63, was prepared to take part in. Lisa had suggested that the pair embrace the idea of wild swimming of a Saturday morning or afternoon.

In the episode Jeremy is seen asking Lisa: "What are you doing?” Speaking from the water Lisa told him: "Just loitering in cold water." And it was at this point Jeremy asked they weren't at the pub before suggesting that they could head home and read a book together.

Explaining the logic behind her suggestion, Lisa continued: "Apparently because this is the best high you could ever get." Noticing his reluctance, Lisa told him to open his mind as he had never been in cold water before. But Jeremy replied: "I have been in cold water! I’ve done polar training - it was awful and trust me I’ve been drunk - and I’ve been in cold water - and being drunk is better.“

Having enough of watching her paddling around in the water, Jeremy lost his cool and barked: "So let’s go to the pub, get out! Come on, please, hurry up." Jeremy became a household name on the back of presenting Top Gear alongside James May and Richard Hammond between 2002 and 2015.

And while the trio had turned their back on the BBC show, it seems Richard has not ruled out reprising their roles. Speaking to the Mirror, Richard said:"I don't know. I have no doubt Top Gear will come back one day. Somebody will pick it up and run with it. It’ll be a different show."

The trio have been filming for The Grand Tour in the Sahara Desert. Speaking about the experience, Richard continued: "It was great to be back out somewhere a bit tough. We couldn't fall back on our incredible crew to capture a remote or hostile place. We had to fall back more on the relationship between us three and the banter and the nonsense."

He added: "I know how to push their buttons. They know how to push mine. We're passionate about what we do. If we'd all really fallen out we couldn’t do the job, could we?" And speaking of his 22 year motoring TV career coming to an end, he said: "We decided a long time ago. The one thing we wanted to be in control of is deciding when and where and how we landed.”

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads