Christian Horner remains under investigation at Red Bull amid an allegation of inappropriate behaviour, although the team principal is still working ahead of the new Formula 1 season

Formula 1 have released a statement commenting on the allegation of inappropriate behaviour levelled at Red Bull team principal Christian Horner.

Red Bull opened an investigation earlier this month after a female colleague claimed that Horner, 50, had acted inappropriately towards her. Horner strongly denies the accusation and insisted that it was "business as normal" when making his first public appearance on Thursday.

F1 have since issued a statement which read: "We have noted Red Bull has instigated an independent investigation into internal allegations at Red Bull Racing. We hope matter will be clarified at earliest opportunity, after a fair & thorough process. Will not comment further at this time."

Their comments follow Horner's strong denial during Red Bull's presentation of their new car ahead of the 2024 season. Speaking to Sky Sports this past Thursday, the husband of Spice Girl Geri Halliwell affirmed: "It's business as usual. Obviously, I fully deny any accusations that have been made against me but of course I'll work with that process, which I hope is concluded in the near future.

"I can't comment on what that process consists (of). I'm confident obviously in the process and working with the process and deny absolutely any allegations being made. I just continue to work within that process until it's concluded."

Horner is understood to have refuted the accusation during showdown talks at Red Bull's headquarters in Milton Keynes on Friday, February 9. The 50-year-old added that wife Geri, who he married in 2015 and has three children with, has been "very supportive." "My focus has been on the job and the season ahead," he stated.

Horner has been Red Bull's team principal since they entered Formula 1 back in 2005, making him the longest-serving boss on the grid. During that period, the Leamington Spa-born chief has overseen seven drivers' world championships and six constructors' titles.

Red Bull's dominance was demonstrated last year by winning 21 of the 22 races, with three-time world champion Max Verstappen setting a new record for 10 successive Grand Prix victories.

Star driver Verstappen appeared relaxed during Red Bull's season launch event, saying: "I don't know who likes to write these kinds of things. But to me and Christian, it's like always. From my side, I am very focused on my own performance to get ready, to be fit, to be ready to drive the car, to be discussing things with the engineers, what you want to do.

"Plus, my life is not only F1. When I'm at home I prefer not to think about F1 too much outside of my scheduled training. There are a lot of things going on in the background for me also, what I want to do in the future, also from the virtual [racing] side of things that I'm working on, so I'm busy enough at home."

The 2024 F1 season starts in Bahrain on Sunday, March 2.