Despite Prince Harry's apparent willingness to help the ill King Charles, it's thought the monarch does not envisage his youngest son returning to the royal fold

King Charles 'firmly of the opinion' Harry can't return as working royal despite his 'willingness'

King Charles is reportedly set on the thoughts that his youngest son Prince Harry cannot return to life as a working royal despite his apparent willingness.

There has been speculation the Duke of Sussex would be open to a temporary return to his role following the monarch's cancer diagnosis. It comes after the pair shared a brief but positive meeting following Harry's quick trip back to the UK to be by his dad's side.

However, sources close to Charles are insistent that the warm meeting hasn't changed things, with the King "firmly of the opinion" there is no way back to the royal fold for Harry. They do, though, say Charles would be open to fixing his strained relationship with his son.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Prince William 'carrying the weight of worry' while Harry was 'elated' on Canada trip

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

One source told Daily Mail: "Have the King and Harry been speaking? Yes. Does this mean a return to the fold even on a temporary basis? No," while another added: "Aside from a small number of investitures, the King does not plan to offload a great number of duties on other family members while he undergoes treatment."

Others made it clear that the royal family are in "solid agreement" that the so-called "Sandringham Summit" but be upheld, after the late Queen said in January 2020 that any "half-in, half-out" approach by Harry simply couldn't work.

It was claimed over the weekend that Harry would be open to help his family if needed, but doesn't expect the call to come. A source close to Harry told Page Six: "I have a hard time believing if his dad asks for his help that Harry would say no, I think he would try." But the insider added: "I don't think it's something that Harry would ask [to do] on his own."

During an interview with Good Morning America on Friday, the Duke \said he thinks the King's illness could bring the family together after years of tension and he declared: "I love my family." The monarch's younger son is also likely to bring his children to England more often so they can spend some time with their three cousins and their grandparents, sources have claimed.

Harry initially stepped down as a working royal alongside his wife Meghan Markle in 2020. He remains a counsellor of state but is not expected to take up any of the King's duties while he recovers.

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.