Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean were moved to tears on Sunday's Dancing On Ice as they celebrated an impressive career milestone amid their recent shock retirement news

Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean were moved to tears on Sunday's Dancing On Ice after their shock retirement announcement.

During the latest episode, hosts Holly Willoughby and Stephen Mulhern aired a special segment, celebrating Torvill and Dean's 40th anniversary of their Olympic gold success, which featured plenty of star-studded messages.

The pair wrote their names in British sporting history at the 1984 Winter Games following their routine to Ravel’s Bolero at the Zetra Olympic Hall in Sarajevo. The intense performance sparked a standing ovation inside the arena and perfect scores of 6.0 were awarded from the 12 judges.

After the special segment, Christopher, 65, fought back tears as he said: "First of all, that's the first time we've seen that... you can talk [Jayne]" as he composed himself. In the special segment, Courtney Jones, who designed their Bolero outfits, featured and the designer then surprised the judges on the show.

Image: ITV) ITV)

Holly said: "We also saw in that film there, Courtney Jones, who of course designed your iconic Bolero outfits and was an integral part of the team. It would have been so lovely if he could have been here tonight to celebrate with you... well he can because he is here!" to which they were all reunited on stage.

It comes as Torvill and Dean told The Mirror in an exclusive interview last week that they were hanging up their skates, 40 years on from their rise to stardom. In our chat, Jayne and Christopher revealed they were sticking with ITV's Dancing On Ice while hanging up their skates as far as competing and tours are concerned. Reflecting on the decision to draw things to a close, Chris said: "I think there comes a time when you know. We're not spring chickens any more, but we’re still able to do it to a certain degree we feel good about it, but that will go.

"This is the right time for us to be able to do that and go and skate and do some of the old routines, be very nostalgic, but then do some new fun, upbeat [dances] with friends of ours from the skating world and from Dancing On Ice. We’ll have a sense of pride as well, I think, of what we’ve done. I think we'll get reflective and look at it not in a sad way but in a happy way."

Image: ITV) ITV)

A spokesperson for ITV has since told The Mirror that Jayne and Christopher's retirement from skating will not impact their roles as judges on Dancing On Ice, and therefore, they won't be leaving the show anytime soon. "Jayne and Chris are judges on the series so their retirement from skating does not impact the show," the spokesperson insisted. The pair are retiring from the rink with one final tour on the way, which they say will be a "nostalgic celebration".

The duo are set to embark on an upcoming tour – Torvill & Dean: Our Last Dance – before hanging up their skates. The shows, which will run from April 12 to May 11, 2025 and include dates in London, Belfast, Newcastle and Glasgow, will celebrate 50 years since they formed their skating partnership in 1975.

Dancing On Ice returns next Sunday at 6:30pm on ITV and ITV X. Follow Mirror Celebs and TV on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads.