Former Celebs Go Dating and Married At First Sight UK star Laura Vaughan has recalled her awkward hot-tub date with Gary Lucy before he found love with Love Island star Laura Anderson

Married At First Sight UK star Laura Vaughan has detailed her rather awkward date with former EastEnders star, Gary Lucy.

Prior to her Married at First Sight debut, Laura, 34, appeared on the 2022 series of Celebs Go Dating, where she was paired with a number of famous names, including Ex- Hollyoaks star Gary and former TOWIE star Pete Wicks.

Despite some lively conversation between both men, sadly no enduring romance would come from the dates, leading Laura to try a different approach to romance as she put her fate in the hands of the Married At First Sight UK experts to find her Prince Charming.

Laura, became a huge hit with viewers when she tied the knot with Arthur Poremba on the E4 show show, but sadly, things didn't work out for the pair.

Image: E4) E4)

After the failed attempt at a happy ever after, Laura is still in search of lasting love and speaking exclusively to The Mirror, the reality TV star admitted that she would love another chance to appear on Celebs Go Dating - but this time, as the celebrity.

Before her Married At First Sight journey in 2023, Laura enjoyed a string of dates with a number of huge names in 2023 when she appeared on Celebs Go Dating - but actor Gary was her most memorable date. Opening up about their steamy hot-tub meeting, Laura admitted that she knew from the get-go that she and Gary were not a match.

"I would absolutely do Celebs Go Dating again, I think it would be iconic. I was a dater on the show and I would love to go back as a celebrity. I just feel like going back and work more closely with the experts, Paul C Brunson, Mel Schilling, and Charlene Douglas would be incredible. If there was any show I'd do besides MAFS, it would definitely be that," Laura told.

Image: E4) E4)

Shedding light on her rather awkward encounter with Gary, she recalled: "I was paired up with Gary Lucy for the first round of Celebs. It was all a bit of a blur to be honest. My first real interaction with him was just getting into a hot-tub with him.

"It was a lot - Pete Wicks was there. I knew from the start that Gary wasn't my type. He seemed like a lovely guy, but I just knew we wouldn't be a match immediately."

While Laura didn't find love on her Celebs Go Dating stint, Gary actually went on to fall head over heels for another woman called Laura - Love Island star Laura Anderson. The pair, who have sadly since split, kept their romance under wraps for months until the show ended and then went public with their relationship on Instagram.

Image: Laura Anderson/Instagram) Laura Anderson/Instagram)

Gary and Laura now share daughter Bonnie Rose together, after Laura gave birth to her first child last year.

Despite the fact she and Gary ended their relationship, the pair are still close friends and co-parent their daughter together. Bonnie is first child for 35-year-old Laura - who was a contestant on season four of Love Island back in 2018.

For 42-year-old Gary, Bonnie Rose is his fifth child as he shares four other children with his ex-wife, Natasha Gray.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .