Savvy shoppers are raving about a celeb-owned beauty product that only costs £1.50 from Poundland and has left their skin feeling 'soft and great' after just one week's use

Forget expensive treatments and luxurious creams; turns out the secret to soft, silky skin costs just £1.50.

Poundland isn't perhaps the first place you'd think of when it comes to skincare products, but the budget retailer has wowed shoppers with one of its celeb-owned beauty ranges. The cheap overnight gel mask won't break the bank but will leave you feeling like you're in a Dove commercial.

It's all thanks to The Only Way is Essex star Jessica Wright, who launched her eponymously named beauty and fragrance brand back in 2019. Now, the TV star's Beauty Dream Cream Overnight Gel Mask is proving particularly popular.

"This stuff is amazing," one woman wrote in the Poundland Appreciation Society Facebook group. "I've been using it for one week now at night and my skin has been so soft, feels great."

Many users took to the comments section to praise the product, with one person writing: "Tried it last night, it's lovely." While another said they 'deffo need' to try the new range, which also features fake eyelashes, tanning wipes, and artificial nails.

Image: poundlandappreciation/Facebook) poundlandappreciation/Facebook)

Want big news with big heart? Get the top headlines sent straight to your inbox with our Daily Newsletter

If you're worried your soft skin is going to be marred by inevitable fine lines and wrinkles, a popular vitamin could be the answer to your problems. Vitamin C has long been praised in the skincare industry for reducing the appearance of dark spots and brightening tired, dull skin.

But according to Harvard Health, the vitamin (aka ascorbic acid) could also help improve wrinkles. One study found participants who used a vitamin C formulation daily for at least three months saw improvements in the appearance of fine and coarse wrinkles on their faces and neck.

It concluded that visible signs of ageing in human skin could be made better "through the provision of vitamin C". However, researchers pointed out that measurement of skin changes is "difficult" - so there's no guarantee your vitamin C moisturizer will keep you looking young forever.

Do you have a story to share? Email us at yourmirror@mirror.co.uk