Doctor Who star David Tennant is on hosting duties at the Bafta Awards at the Royal Festival Hall in London, taking over from Alison Hammond and actor Richard E. Grant

The 2024 Bafta Awards has returned with another batch of talented stars hoping to win coveted awards.

This year, Doctor Who star David Tennant is on hosting duties at the Royal Festival Hall in London, taking over from TV presenter Alison Hammond and actor Richard E. Grant. Film stars including Cillian Murphy, Margot Robbie and Bradley Cooper are in attendance at the event.

Adapted Screenplay nominees include All Of Us Strangers, American Fiction, Oppenheimer, Poor Things and The Zone Of Interest. The Original Screenplay nominees are Anatomy Of A Fall, Barbie, The Holdovers, Maestro and Past Lives. Actors nominated for a Bafta include the likes of Rosamund Pike, Robert Downey Jr., Ryan Gosling, Emily Blunt, Fantasia Barrino, Margot Robbie and more. The ceremony features performances by Sophie Ellis-Bextor and Hannah Waddingham.

As the ceremony started, host David walked up on stage to introduce the lavish event and said the awards were "going to go smoother than Ken’s chest” as he referenced Barbie. Looking out at the star-studded audience, he said: “Look at you in your tuxedos and fancy dresses, like the opening scenes of Saltburn. Let’s hope it doesn’t end up like the closing scenes of Saltburn.”

Image: Getty Images for BAFTA) Getty Images for BAFTA) Image: BAFTA via Getty Images) BAFTA via Getty Images)

He continued: “Judging these awards is like picking a favourite child – difficult, not impossible, but difficult.” David then joked about the 2024 US presidential election, where Donald Trump and Joe Biden are expected to go head-to-head again, in his opening monologue. Referencing Bafta-nominated surreal comedy Poor Things, the Scottish actor said the film is about how a woman is reanimated and has a child’s brain put into her head, joking: “One of them may even be elected president”.

Speaking of hosting the show., he recently said: "I don’t currently feel particularly challenged because everything’s written down for me and I don’t have to worry about winning or not winning an award. If it was the first night of a play, I’d be curled up in a corner in the fetal position. But the fact that it’s not my day job certainly feels liberating.”

Should Barbie have bagged a BAFTA? Vote in our poll HERE to have your say.

Bafta president Prince William was in attendance at the ceremony, as his wife Kate Middleton continues to recover from recent abdominal surgery. His attendance at the event will be his first official public appearance since his wife’s operation last month. Prince William, who is president of the British Academy of Film and Television Arts, was originally scheduled to skip the star-studded ceremony due to Kate’s health issues but has seemingly had a last-minute change of heart.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .