Two 15-year-olds have been charged with murder in connection with the stabbing of 16-year-old Darrian Williams in a Bristol park on Wednesday

Two 15-year-old boys have been charged with the murder of 16-year-old Darrian Williams who died after being stabbed in a park in Bristol on Wednesday, Avon and Somerset Police said.

Darrian Williams was attacked in Rawnsley Park in Easton on Valentine's Day by two masked attackers, police said. The injured teenager ran to nearby Stapleton Road following the incident where a motorist tried to help him before he collapsed in West Street, a 10-minute walk away in the city's Old Market neighbourhood.

Two boys, both aged 15, were arrested on suspicion of murder on the evening of February 15.

“We are working non-stop to fully establish the circumstances around Darrien’s death and we will not rest until those responsible are brought to justice," Senior Investigating Officer Det Insp Neil Meade said on Friday.

The loss of another young life is devastating and my thoughts are with Darrian’s family. I would like to thank everyone who has come forward with information so far and encourage anyone who has information but has yet to speak to us to do so as soon as possible.”

Image: Tom Wren / SWNS) Tom Wren / SWNS)

On January 27 two teenagers, Mason Rist, 15, and Max Dixon, 16, were stabbed to death in the Knowle West area of the city. There is “nothing to indicate” Wednesday’s stabbing was linked to the one in Knowle West, police said.

A stabbing at a Bristol city centre McDonald’s on February 8 saw a 16-year-old boy critically wounded while other incidents have involved children and young people being injured, including a 14-year-old boy on February 4 and a 20-year-old man on Wednesday. In July, Eddie Kinuthia, 19, died in hospital after being stabbed in a Bristol park just metres from his home.

Stop and search powers have been enhanced in parts of the city and new police operation targeting youth violence has also been launched across the policing area. Officers have also met with headteachers today to discuss ways in which police can provide support and reassurance ahead of pupils’ return from half-term and officers will be making extra patrols outside of schools next week. A mobile police station will also be in the area over the coming days.