Millie Radford, who is part of the UK's biggest family, spent Valentine's Day in hospital with her nine-month-old daughter Elodie, who was suffering with Covid-19

Millie Radford, who is known for being part of the UK's biggest family, the Radfords, spent Valentine's night in hospital with her youngest child.

The 22-year-old explained that her nine-month-old daughter Elodie was sick with coronavirus this week. Millie revealed that everyone in her household was suffering from the virus, but Elodie was the worst affected. Sharing a picture of Elodie sleeping in her arms, Millie said: "I can't believe how bad we've been wiped out with Covid.

"Poor Elodie has been the worst - we spent our Valentine's night in hospital." This isn't the first time baby Elodie has been in hospital, after she suffered a respiratory syncytial virus, also known as RSV, in November 2023. The illness is common in children but can be dangerous for more fragile newborns.

Image: millieradfordd/instagram) millieradfordd/instagram) Image: Instagram) Instagram)

Millie, who is mother to Ophelia, 3, Chester, one, and nine-month-old Elodie, shared details of their illness-struggles with her followers, to highlight just how dangerous RSV can be. She explained how RSV can be transmitted through tiny droplets in the air which come into contact with the mouth or nose. A child, or anyone, can become infected if someone with RSV coughs or sneezes near them. The virus also passes to others through direct contact, such as shaking hands or kissing.

Millie from the Radford family, who you might know from the show '22 Kids and Counting', has talked about how tough it is to have three little ones. She said on the show: "I don't think anything could have actually prepared me for this. It's really not great." About Elodie, she said: "Very happy. She likes to smile. She has the best smile and giggle ever. She's just perfect." And she told us that Ophelia is super helpful and Chester is a bit of a cheeky one. Millie also shared: "Going from one to two, I found that okay, it wasn't too bad. But going from two to three, that was definitely hard."

The big Radford family includes Chris, Sophie, Chloe, Jack, Daniel, Luke, Millie, Katie, James, Ellie, Aimee, Josh, Max, Tillie, Oscar, Casper, Hallie, Phoebe, Archie, Bonnie, and Heidie. Plus, they've got 14 grandkids - Daisy, Ayprill, Leo, Masie, Nicolas, Jacob, Ophelia, Chester, Elodie, Eloise, and four step-grandchildren.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTubeand Threads .