The Duke and Duchess of Sussex, Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, have been warned that 'one more wrong move could see their rebrand in tatters', according to a PR guru

Exclusive: Harry and Meghan warned that 'one more wrong move could see their rebrand in tatters'

Meghan Markle and Prince Harry have been issued a warning by a public relations guru that "one more wrong move could see their rebrand in tatters", as they attempt to save face in 2024.

The couple, who stepped back from being senior working royals in 2020 before moving to the States, have been easing themselves back into the public eye recently. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have been working on exciting projects and attending glitzy events, with them thought to be trying to rebrand themselves and their brand this year.

Just last week they relaunched their website, which came before they jetted from California to Canada to promote the 2025 Invictus Games. And this all came shortly after the couple walked the red carpet in Jamaica at a film premiere.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Meghan Markle and Prince Harry 'cannot be trusted', says Prince William

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

Speaking to The Mirror about her thoughts on the couple's rebrand, public relations guru Lynn Carratt from Press Box PR has said: "Meghan and Harry are technically on their fourth rebrand since their wedding in 2018. This latest rebrand comes off the back of a difficult 2023, which, saw their popularity in the USA plummet.

"They were mocked in an episode of South Park, and trendy LA store Kitson slammed the couple for their hypocrisy in their famous Christmas window display," she went on.

Lynn then noted how Americans "love the British Royal Family" and are "fascinated by them", adding: "So Meghan and Harry’s constant backbiting and revelations about the UK Royals weren’t doing their reputation any favours in the States."

She continued: "Now, in 2024, the couple seems to be taking a much more reconciliation approach, and indeed, Harry appears keen to build bridges with his family. I feel they judged the rebrand of their website poorly.

For all the latest news on the Royal Family, read The Mirror's live royal blog.

"It really plays on their Royal connections, and they have always said they want to step away from the Royal Family and strive to be independent; you can’t be independent of Harry’s family if you’re constantly using their connections for publicity."

Touching on the positive points from the couple's 2024 so far, Lynn went on to add: "But look, they are just coming off the back successful publicity tour in Canada for the Invictus Games. They came across well and generated positive headlines, so credit where credit is due, and if their PR is handled right in the upcoming months, we could certainly see their popularity rise."

Concluding her expert analysis, Lynn issued the Sussexes a stark warning. "But we’ve been here before with Meghan and Harry," she began, adding: "they had a hugely successful Royal tour of Australia in 2018, and they were well received, and the public began to fall in love with them; then Megxit happened, and the tide turned. So, one wrong move and their PR rebrand could again be in tatters."

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .