Doctor Who star David Tennant is hosting the 77th British Academy Film Awards where he will preside over a night of celebrating the biggest and brightest in film

To millions of TV fans around the world, David Tennant is best known as Doctor Who - a role he has played for more almost two decades.

But for one lucky lady, his ultimate role is surely that of a devoted husband - as 52-year-old David has been married to 39-year-old actress Georgia Moffett. The pair have been happily married for 13 years and share a number of children together.

This weekend, David is presenting the 77th British Academy Film Awards which are being broadcast from the Royal Festival Hall in London and will be available to watch on BBC One from 7pm on Sunday night. He will be rubbing shoulders with - and possibly mocking - a number of A List stars as huge Hollywood movies including Oppenheimer and Killer of the Flower Moon battle out to win a range of gongs.

Here we look at the married life of the BAFTA host - exploring how he met his wife, and how he asked for her hand in marriage.

Who is David Tennant married to?

Image: Dave J Hogan/Getty Images) Dave J Hogan/Getty Images) Image: Birmingham Mail) Birmingham Mail)

David Tennant is married to English actress Georgia Moffett. The couple had an unexpected link before they had met as David played BBC character The Doctor from long-running sci-fi show Doctor Who since 2005 and Georgia’s father, Peter Davison, 72, played the fifth iteration of the character from 1981 until 1984.

David has previously explained that he was concerned about the age gap between him and his wife as he is now 52 and she is 39. He told the Gaby Roslin podcast: “I thought we were an unlikely life partnership, there was a bit of an age gap. Because Doctor Who had run through my life like a stick of rock, to end up marrying the daughter of one of the doctors, it all felt a bit stupid… so there were a lot of things against it.”

However, Georgia has claimed credit for sparking their romance - as she admitted she pursued him relentlessly. She told the podcast: “You couldn’t quite believe that’s why I was messaging you 400 times a day. You thought maybe I was lonely and wanted a chat… I very much fell into stalker category. Thank goodness I did though. I just made a decision, I thought, ‘This is going to be good, let’s do this, I’ll just persevere until he gives in.'”

They met when Georgia played the Doctor’s cloned daughter in the 2008 episode The Doctor’s Daughter. They became engaged in 2011 and married that same year. David opened up about asking Georgia to marry him during an episode of the Jonathan Ross show, saying: "I wrapped up a big box in Christmas paper and there was another box inside that and another inside that. She didn't get it. It was weird. She was going through [the boxes] by box 10, she still hadn't figured out what I was doing. It was great, she opened the last box and it worked! She said 'Yes', thankfully!"

How many children do David and Georgia Tennant have?

Image: HBO) HBO)

David and Georgia share five children together. Georgia has a 21-year-old son named Ty - who TV fans will recognise as a young version of Aegon II Targaryen in the HBO fantasy series House of the Dragon - from a previous relationship.

David adopted Ty after he and Georgia married and he has adopted the Tennant surname. Together, David and Georgia welcomed their first daughter, named Olive, in 2011. They have three more children together, named Wilfred, Doris, and Birdie.

David gushed about fatherhood in 2019 shortly after welcoming Birdie. He said on a TV show: “[I have] five [children now] it’s quite a lot, it’s a sofa full! It is great. It’s a lot of work but there’s nothing like it really. The baby is nine weeks old now so you’re just getting that thing where you look and get a smile back. You’d give up any night’s sleep for that.”

What TV shows has Georgia Tennant been in?

Image: BBC) BBC)

Georgia made her acting debut in 1999 when she had a role in Peak Practice playing a character named Nicki Davey across four episodes. She went on to star in The Bill from 2002 until 2009 and had a recurring role on Where the Heart Is from 2004 until 2005. Other TV shows she has appeared in include Holly City, Casualty, Merlin, and recent Netflix show The Sandman.

She has also appeared on film in the 2017 British comedy You, Me and Him - which had leading cast of Lucy Punch, Faye Marsay and Georgia’s very own husband, David Tennant. She also played a character named Jenny in a 2008 episode of Doctor Who, titled The Doctor’s Daughter - which ultimately brought the couple together.

David gushed of his future wife’s performance at the time, explaining of the episode: “She starts off not being particularly likeable but by the end she's learned a lot from her experiences and from The Doctor. She becomes something that he's very proud of.”

The 77th British Academy Film Awards will air via BBC One on Sunday 18 February at 7pm.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads.