Oppenheimer star Florence Pugh stunned on the carpet at the 77th British Academy Film Awards in London as she waited to see if the biopic won the Best Film category

Florence Pugh offered a little bit of Sci Fi razzle dazzle to the 2024 BAFTA Film Awards in London on Sunday as she took time out from promoting Dune: Part Two to celebrate one of the biggest films of last year.

Fans will be well aware that 28-year-old Florence was a cast member of the hit epic biographical thriller Oppenheimer - in which she played Communist supporting psychiatrist Jean Tatlock. Oppenheimer - which was directed by Christopher Nolan and was released at the same time as Barbie - was nominated for an impressive 13 gongs at the 77th British Academy Film Awards.

And while Florence herself was nominated for any of the awards, she stood to celebrate a share of a win as the movie was in the Best Film category. Next month, Florence will be seen playing Princess Irulan in sci-fi saga Dune: Part Two and she has been travelling the globe in recent weeks to promote it.

Taking to the red carpet on Sunday, Florence offered a hint of sci-fi chic as she wore a striking metallic corset with plunging neckline detail. She wore the corset over a sleeveless black gown, draped a dramatic black scarf over her shoulders, and also wore an eye-catching long silver necklace.

Image: Getty Images for BAFTA) Getty Images for BAFTA) Image: Justin Goff/GoffPhotos.com) Justin Goff/GoffPhotos.com)

Florence’s role in Oppenheimer drew some controversy as she spends scenes naked alongside lead star Cillian Murphy - who played the titular J. Robert Oppenheimer. While her role is a supporting one, Florence said she jumped at the chance to take part in the film. She told MTV UK last year: “I didn’t really know what was going on or what it was that was being made. Except I knew that Chris [Nolan] really, really wanted me to know that it wasn’t a very big role, and he understands if I don’t want to come near it. And I was like, ‘Doesn’t matter. Even if I’m a coffee maker at a café in the back of the room, let’s do it.’

“I remember he apologised about the size of the role. I was like, ‘Please don’t apologise’. And then he said, ‘We’ll send you the script, and honestly, you just read it and decide if it’s like… I completely understand the sizing thing.’ And I remember that evening when I got the script being like, ‘I don’t need to… I know I’m going to do it.’”

Cillian, 47, defended the sex scenes he and Florence filmed together. He told GQ last year: “I think the relationship that he has with Jean Tatlock is one of the most crucial emotional parts of the film. I think if they’re key to the story then they’re worthwhile. Listen, no one likes doing them, they’re the most awkward possible part of our job. But sometimes you have to get on with it.”

Cillian is nominated in the Best Actor category - while his on-screen wife, Emily Blunt, stands to win Best Supporting Actress. Oppenheimer has been nominated for a range of other gongs - including Best Director, Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Costume, among others.

77th British Academy Film Awards - hosted by David Tennant - will air on BBC One and via BBC iPlayer at 7pm on Sunday 18 February 2024.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads.