Ronnie O'Sullivan is refusing to even attempt 147 breaks because of the amount of prize money on offer, claiming he could have hit another "five or six" had he not decided to go "on strike"

Ronnie O'Sullivan says he is "on strike" from attempting 147 breaks because there is simply not enough prize money on offer for hitting one.

O'Sullivan has hit 15 maximums across his legendary career, but claims he could have made another "five or six" had he not decided to stop going for them. The Rocket's comments came while he was working as a pundit for Eurosport at the Welsh Open, having pulled out of the tournament at late notice.

Gary Wilson hit a 147 break in his 6-4 semi-final win over John Higgins and when asked how many more he could he have hit if he had "kept trying to make them in recent years", O'Sullivan replied: "I reckon another five or six, but I went on strike a long time ago."

When asked if he was going to remain on strike, O'Sullivan insisted: "Yeah, until they start bumping up the prize money." He then added that he would start attempting 147s again if the prize money was upped to £147,000 for hitting one.

At the 2016 Welsh Open, O'Sullivan refused to go for a 147 as the prize money on offer was "too cheap" and he ended up hitting a 146 instead. "I could have got on the black and possibly made a 147," he admitted at the time.

"I knew it was 10 grand and I just thought that's a bit too cheap, really. To make a maxi, it's such a massive achievement and if they're going to pay us 10 grand, I think it's worth a bit more than that. Once the prize goes up a bit, I'll go for the 147. A 146 is just as good!"

In 2022, O'Sullivan also refused to attempt a 147 at the UK Championship due to the £15,000 prize money, claiming it was only worth a go if £50,000 was on offer. "What's the prize for a max here? £15,000? Not enough," he said.

Image: Tai Chengzhe/VCG via Getty Images) Tai Chengzhe/VCG via Getty Images)

"I'd probably go for it if it was £50,000 but for anything less than that then let somebody else have a go. I'm not that bothered for it. What's the point?

"There's no point taking the risk. I don't need the money so if it's going to be money then make it proper money and then I might go for it."

Wilson's 147 against Higgins was the 199th time it has been hit in professional snooker and the 38-year-old went on to beat Martin O'Donnell 9-4 in the final to win his third ranking title.

Join our new WhatsApp community and receive your daily dose of Mirror Football content. We also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don't like our community, you can check out any time you like. If you're curious, you can read our Privacy Notice.