Kelly Brook has revealed the secrets behind her two stone weight-loss with SlimFast but insists that she has no desire to become a size zero she it's simply for maintenance

TV personality Kelly Brook has revealed that she has lost two stone since 2017 and finally opens up on how she achieved her goal.

And even though she's proud of her dedication to her weight-loss plan, the 44 year old star says she has no desire to lose her curves. Speaking about her fitness and diet regime, Kelly said in a recent interview that her breakfast depends what she has planned for the day. If she's in no hurry, she will eat a granola bar and make herself a coffee. However, if she's in a hurry she will simply have a SlimFast shake.

Image: Popperfoto via Getty Images) Popperfoto via Getty Images)

Her lunch usually consists of another SlimFast shake or one of the weight-loss brand's meal bars. But dinner is more of an occasion and this is when she has quality time with her husband Jeremy Parisi. Keen to maintain Kelly's healthy routine, Jeremy likes to make sure that a hearty but healthy dinner is ready for when she returns home from presenting Heart Radio's drivetime show.

Speaking to the Mailonline she said: "I'll come home to a nice cooked meal. He's very sweet, he'll always light a little candle and set the table.He's Italian-French so it's all about sitting down and eating together so we do that and a lot of walking.We try and keep fit and healthy together. We've got a dog so we go out on weekends for two hour hikes and stuff like that, which we love to do."

While Jeremy is proud of her weight-loss, he is not however, too keen on her losing her curves, which Kelly puts down to him being typically Italian. The TV star explained that he likes a "big bum" and her "boobies." But it's quite clear that a positive mindset is key in dropping the pounds as she insists that no one cares what a person looks like, that viewpoint is down to the individual. And this is why she says it can be a never ending battle if you're trying to please someone else.

Casting her mind back to her appearance in her 20's, Kelly says that she was a "trailblazer" for curvy women as that is what she remembers being called throughout her modelling career. At the time, the popular look was skinny, similar to the Kate Moss look, which at the time was described as a waifish look. But Kelly insists at that time she was in fact a normal size.

Although she has earned a legion of fans, she explains that she has been trolled by fans who don't like her posting about SlimFast as they feel as though she doesn't need to lose any weight. But she says that she takes time to explain that its not about become skinny, it's more to do with maintenance.

Kelly tied the knot 18-months ago. She told the Mirror “We’ve been together 10 years now, but being married makes a difference. I think it’s been lovely for us. Like we just feel we are family. We just feel more connected.” Kelly and Jeremy live in a Tudor farmhouse in Kent and she says even though her life is completely different to back in the nineties - she much prefers the quieter life. She said: "We’re planning a future together. It goes beyond boyfriend and girlfriend. We’ve become family.”

Kelly and Jeremy married in Civitavecchia, Italy on July 30, 2022. Kelly said: "I take it really seriously. I’ve committed to that. I’ve made those vows. I made that promise. For Better or Worse. Sickness and in Health.The difference goes beyond sex. It goes beyond normal relationships. It’s on a different level. Being married makes you feel like somebody has your back no matter what, and I think that is so beautiful."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads