Millions of adults are struggling to doze off at night. But if you're not keen on taking strong sleeping tablets to help you get some Zzzs - a little-known supplement could just do the trick

Stress and sleep create a viscious cycle; the more you worry, the more restless you become - which in turn makes you even more stressed.

Trouble sleeping is extremely common, with millions of adults across the nation struggling to get some much-needed kip. In fact, a 2017 poll found that two thirds of Brits suffer from disrupted sleep - and 31 per cent think they have insomnia - a condition that can severley impact your ability to perform daily tasks.

If you spend the night with your eyes wide open, waiting for what seems like forever to drift off - a little-known supplement could be the answer to your problems.

Ashwagandha, also known as withania somnifera, is a highly acclaimed herb within the Indian Ayurvedic system of medicine. In recent years, it has been popularised by the West and can now be found in a slew of retailers.

A tub of 30 capsules from Holland & Barrett will set you back £12.99 - which works out at just 43p per capsule. You can also grab a tub of 99 tablets from My Protein - which means you'll only be paying 10p per capsule. But, does it actually get rid of stress and help you sleep?

A 2020 clinical evaluation into the impact of ashwagandha root extract yielded positive results in 'both healthy and insomnia subjects' irrespective of age. It concluded that the supplement can 'improve sleep quality and can help in managing insomnia'. Similarly, a randomised trial of 144 participants tested a double-blind placebo-controlled test in healthy adults. This is where some subjects were given ashwagandha while others given a tablet that has no effect on sleep quality. Researchers found hat 72 per cent of those who took the drug reported an increase in sleep quality, compared to just 29 per cent of those in the placebo group.

When it comes to reducing anxiety, more research is needed. A 2019 study concluded that that ashwagandha's 'stress-relieving effects' may occur due to its effect on the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis (basically our main stress response system). But, scientists say bigger sample sizes and varying treatments doses need to be explore to 'substantiate these findings'.

Want the latest health news and fitness tips sent straight to your inbox? Sign up to our Health Newsletter

According to Healthline, most of the studies around ashwagandha's sleep benefits are conducted over an extended period. So, don't expect instant results if you do start taking the supplement. The publication also warns that some individuals will experience a 'surge in energy' shortly after consuming the tablet - which could actually disrupt one's sleep.

The NHS says insomnia can usually be treated by making simple changes to your sleeping habit - such as cutting down on alcohol, caffeine or nicotine, and exercising earlier in the day. It also recommends going to bed and waking up at the same time every day to form a stronger sleeping patterns, and to try and tackle stress and anxiety.

If none of these solutions work and you've been having trouble sleeping for months - or insomnia is affecting your daily life - you should contact your GP. A doctor may recommend you see a therapist or refer you to a sleep clinic.

Do you have a story to share? Email us at yourmirror@mirror.co.uk