Loose Women panellist Coleen Nolan performed Little Mix's hit song Shout Out To My Ex at her Naked Tour show. Her son Jake was once engaged to Jesy Nelson

Coleen Nolan surprised fans when she performed her son Jake's ex-fiancée Jesy Nelson's song.

The Loose Women panellist, 58, appeared on stage and belted out the lyrics to Little Mix's hit song Shout Out To My Ex. Her son, Jake Roche, started dating Jesy in 2014. The former couple became engaged in July 2015 but went their separate ways almost a year later.

Considering Coleen's son was in a relationship with Jesy, fans were surprised when she decided to perform the song on stage. Taking to X, formerly known as Twitter, one user shared a clip of the performance. One person said: "Ok but.. Jesy little mix was engaged to her son? this feels weird."

"Not her singing a song written by her son’s ex?! The lack of awareness is staggering," another concerned fan commented. One fan pointed out: "Also her ex is playing the guitar behind her, can’t make it up!!"

Image: DLE Limited) DLE Limited)

Another added: "The irony of her covering this song… by her son’s ex-fiancé." One joked how Coleen was singing the song about her ex-husband, Shane Richie. She married the EastEnders actor in 1990 and they had two sons before splitting up in 1997 and finalising their divorce in 1999.

"Mad to think she’s singing this about Alfie Moon," the user quipped about Coleen's performance at her Naked Tour 2024. Speaking to the Mirror in September last year about the tour, Coleen said: "I'm so excited and terrified all at once. It's something I've never done before, hence why I've called it Naked because I think Naked also suggests apart from the very obvious, it also suggests feeling very vulnerable. And I do feel very vulnerable but I'm also at a stage now where I've always said that singing and performing is really the greatest love of my life is what I've done since the age of two. But I've never had that but I've always been surrounded by family."

It comes after Coleen revealed she would only marry her partner Michael Jones if he signed a prenuptial agreement. The popular presenter and Mirror columnist admitted she found them unromantic, but said she hated the financial wrangling so much during her divorces, that she would never put herself in that position again.

Image: WireImage) WireImage)

Coleen explained: “I think Michael would very much like to get married at some point. If it meant a lot to him, maybe I would, but I’d bloody make him sign a great big piece of paper before I did, because I’m not going through that again.

“I’ve looked into it. 100 per cent. It’s sorted from there and it’s a reference point; no one thinks they’re going to split up.” Coleen, who was married to actor Shane – the father of her two sons, Shane Jr, 34, and Jake, 31 and secondly to musician Ray, father of her daughter Ciara, 21, who met supermarket logistics worker Michael three years on the Tinder dating app, after being single for four years. “I got married twice thinking both of them were for life,” she told Kaye Adams on her How to Be 60 podcast.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .