There's currently no cure for the disease, which is why it's important to spot it early, and tragically most cases end up being fatal. Since 2012, there have been 318 confirmed cases in the UK.

Dog owners are being warned as cases of the deadly Alabama rot have been confirmed in Britain.

The serious disease, that only dogs can catch, causes painful sores on their paws and legs, and often leading to kidney failure. There's currently no cure for the disease, which is why it's important to spot it early, and tragically most cases end up being fatal. Since 2012, there have been 318 confirmed cases in the UK - with 10 already recorded in 2024, according to Anderson Moores Veterinary Specialists. The UK has seen 318 confirmed cases in total with 10 cases so far in 2024.

Dog owners are now being told to watch out for the symptoms of Alabama rot. It's previously been linked to wet and muddy conditions, so is particularly prevalent in the rainy and damp winter weather.

Alabama rot is also known as CRGV (cutaneous and renal glomerular vasculopathy). It was first reported in America in the 1980s, and at first, was only thought to affect greyhounds. The disease can affect any dog, no matter their breed, age or size. It starts by damaging the blood vessels in the skin, which can then harm the kidneys.

What causes it?

We don't know what causes this disease yet, but scientists are trying to find out. However, they think it might have something to do with muddy woods and wet walks, as dogs could pick it up from the ground. Most cases happen in winter and spring, and there aren't many in the summer.

Signs and Symptoms

The RSPCA says if you see signs of Alabama rot in your dog, you should tell your vet straight away. These signs include skin sores, swelling, red patches or skin problems that weren't caused by an injury. Changes in how much your dog wants to eat - eating less, drinking more, being sick and feeling tired could be signs of damage to the kidneys.

Alabama rot can take between one and 10 days to appear on a dog's body. Kidney failure can happen straight after sores appear on a dog, so it's really important to get treatment as soon as possible.

How can it be prevented?

Because we don't know exactly what causes it, we're not sure how to prevent it. But for now, the advice is to always clean and dry your dogs after walks. Lots of dogs love rolling around in mud and playing in water, where they could pick up all sorts of germs.

Dog owners should clean their pets' paws after every walk, Surrey Live reports, especially if they've been near water or mud. It's also a good idea to check your dog's body daily for any sores or ulcers. This can help spot other problems like fleas, lumps and ticks too.

What can be done to treat it?

If your dog has skin ulcers or sores, the Kennel Club says they're usually treated with creams or ointments. If Alabama rot is suspected, vets will give antibiotics and check how well the kidneys are working.

If the kidneys might be affected, the vet will need to keep an eye on the dog. Sadly, Alabama rot can only be confirmed after a dog has passed away, by testing kidney samples. So, we don't know how many dogs survive this disease.

Will pet insurance cover Alabama rot?

Whether your pet insurance covers Alabama rot depends on what type of policy you have. It's important to have insurance to help pay vet bills if your pet gets sick or has an accident.

Some policies only cover accidents, so you wouldn't be covered if your pet gets sick, even with Alabama rot. But if your insurance covers illness, it should cover Alabama rot.

However, if there's a limit on how much you can claim each year, you might not be fully covered for treatment. It's best to check with your insurance company before you take out or change your policy.

Is Alabama rot infectious?

Alabama rot is not thought to be contagious, meaning one dog can't pass it on to another. However, more than one dog from the same home can get the disease, likely from walking in an area where the disease is present at the same time.

People can't catch Alabama rot. It only affects dogs and won't make humans or other animals sick. It's a rare illness, so owners shouldn't let fear of Alabama rot stop them from enjoying outdoor activities with their dogs.