Popular Wrexham owners Ryan Reynolds and Rob McElhenney showed their generosity again with a donation to the family of a young Red Dragons supporter as part of a fundraiser

Ryan Reynolds and Rob McElhenney have demonstrated their kindness with a generous donation to a four-year-old Wrexham fan after a fundraiser was set up by his parents.

The Red Dragons' world-famous owners have established a track record of heartwarming acts towards supporters since assuming the reins at the Racecourse Ground in 2021. Their latest heroic action has come as they gave £10,000 to an online cause set up to help the family of a disabled boy adapt their home in line with his requirements.

Wrexham fan Louis Perrin suffers from a genetic condition called TUBA1A, which causes painful leg spasms, limited mobility, epilepsy and cerebral palsy. His parents Charlotte and Aaron were initially looking to raise £40,000 to adapt their home with a new bedroom on the ground floor which is wheelchair accessible, according to the Just Giving page.

This bedroom will also allow for 'independent play', alongside helping his parents and carers to provide care. They are also looking to install a ground floor wet room which will enable Louis to receive 'intimate care' and 'eventually independent self-care in dignity'.

READ MORE: Wrexham trio singled out after "huge win" reignites Ryan Reynolds' promotion dream

READ MORE: Ryan Reynolds 'amazing' gesture to Wrexham star after wife diagnosed with brain tumour

On top of this, they are looking to make adaptations in terms of widening doorways permanent and independent access to both the home and their garden. They also want to establish a space for his standing frame, wheelchair, hoists, changing tables and physio equipment within the home.

In addition, Louis' parents are looking to install an accessible space for their son to practise using his walker at home and in the garden in the hope that he will one day take his first unaided steps. Now, they have been left in amazement after £23,971 was raised by 582 well-wishers, including Wrexham chairmen Reynolds and McElhenney.

Reflecting on the kindness of those who have donated, dad Aaron, who is a headteacher in Cheshire, spoke in glowing terms about the solidarity shown by strangers and A-Listers alike. He told the BBC : "It's not just the amount, it's the publicity that comes with it. When you set a target of £40,000, you think it is going to take years, now it has given us hope we can do it within 12 months."

Click here to follow the Mirror US on Google News to stay up to date with all the latest news, sport and entertainment stories.

Image: PA) PA) Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

Explaining his surprise at the donation from the Hollywood owners of the North Wales outfit, his astonishment was still palpable as he admitted he 'could not concentrate' after finding out about their kind act. He continued: "When we got that £10,000 from Rob and Ryan, it was just unbelievable."

The fund was initially set up by for Louis, who regularly watches matches alongside his brother Teddy and is an avid Match of the Day fan, as the colleagues of his dad Aaron planed to run in the Nantwich 10k race. Another fundraiser will take place as Wrexham Police FC plan to stage a charity game for Louis in March.

The family have also filmed scenes for the ' Welcome to Wrexham ' docuseries as they look to raise more awareness. For now, Louis' dad has admitted that his boy is quickly becoming a local celebrity, as he confessed: "We're going to have find an agent for him, because he's become quite a local celebrity now!"