Emily Atack comes from a long line of famous family members including her mum Kate Robbins who has been an actress for more than twenty years and is now starring in Death In Paradise

While Emily Atack is a familiar face to many across the UK, it looks as though the apple doesn't fall too far from the tree as she has a famous mum.

Emily, 34, who is currently pregnant with her first child with her partner Dr Alistair Garner, is the daughter of actress Kate Robbins, who is set to star in Death In Paradise. Kate. 65, first rose to fame after appearing on singing show Eurovision Song Contest in which she came third place in 1980, as part of the group Prima Donna.

Around the same time, Kate landed a role in legendary show Crossroads. But she is probably best known for her stint on Victoria Wood's show Dinnerladies, in which she played the character Babs. As the cousin of iconic star Paul McCartney, talent clearly runs in the family as Kate has jumped from one hit TV show to another including Peter Kay's Phoenix Nights, Citizen Khan and Netflix's After Life.

Image: emilyatackofficial/Instagram) emilyatackofficial/Instagram)

Away from the cameras, Kate has a lot to look forward to as because is set to become a grandmother as Emily is pregnant with her first child. But it seems Emily's pregnancy has not been the smoothest as she revealed earlier this week she is suffering from two "hideous" health issues.

Emily, who is 21 week pregnant, is battling painful heartburn and exhaustion. The former Inbetweeners actress shared with fans: "Week 21 of pregnancy. Getting me through this week of utter exhaustion and hideous heartburn are these two." She also tagged the stars of the Netflix romance drama, Ambika Mod and Leo Woodall in the post. Emily and her boyfriend Dr Alistair recently moved in together ahead of their child's arrival. The star only announced she was expecting her first child at the end of December last year and is due to give birth in April.

At the time, she posted on Instagram : "Hello Everyone, it’s been a little while but I’m back with some news. I’m delighted to share with you all that we’re having a baby!! I’ve never been so happy and utterly terrified at the same time. "Please go easy on me." She added: "Every day is mixed with thrill, fear, joy, hysteria, topped off with a lot of vomiting - a bit like when you’ve just stepped off of the Oblivion at Alton Towers on a hangover. I’ve got to know my body on such an insane level. It’s made me appreciate the one I’ve been given SO much, I’m doing my absolute best to make it a home for the little squid I’m growing. We can already sense the baby is reclined on a mattress of peanut butter and jam sandwiches in there, demanding more chocolate buttons. I’m so happy to be writing all of this to you all."

Emily continued: "You’ve always stuck by me through the years, do stick around to watch me enter my mum era. Christ. Let’s go." According to The Sun, Emily's boyfriend Dr Alistair is the son of her late uncle, Dr Stephen Garner, who married the star's aunt Jane Robbins in 1994.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok,Snapchat,Instagram,Twitter,Facebook,YouTubeandThreads