Football icon David Beckham presented the award for the Outstanding Debut by a British Writer at the Bafta Awards 2024 but angered fans with his football comment

David Beckham infuriated fans when he made an awkward mistake while presenting on stage at the 2024 Bafta Awards.

The 48-year-old football icon looked dapper as he appeared at the Royal Festival Hall on Sunday evening to announce the winner of the Outstanding Debut by a British Writer, Director or Producer Award - which was won by none other than Savanah Leaf for the film Earth Mama.

However, he angered fans when he referred to 'football' as 'soccer'. They rushed to social media to criticise him for 'pandering to the Americans' with the US phrasing of the sport. One viewer wrote on X, formerly known as Twitter : "That might be true in football, or soccer-' DAVID BECKHAM YOU ARE ON THE BAFTAS DON'T YOU DARE PANDER TO THE AMERICANS!!!"

"David Beckham calling football soccer at a British awards show," another commented while one said: "No David you were right the first time... it's called football!!" One fumed: "Don't you dare say soccer, David. Who even are you?" David rubbed shoulders with some of the biggest names in film - as a string of high-profile productions and performers were nominated on the night, while Prince William was in attendance in his capacity of BAFTA President.

If you can't see the poll, click here

David even stopped to chat with the royal, with the pair spotted shaking hands and enjoying a catch-up. However, David's involvement in the ceremony was slammed by a few film fans who thought he had no right to be there. David - who was featured in a recent Netflix documentary about his life and career - was the focus of many unkind comments on social media.

Image: Getty Images for BAFTA) Getty Images for BAFTA)

One user cruelly said on X: "Why is that f**king p***k Beckham there? #BAFTAs." Another questioned, a little more politely: "Um, why is David Beckham at the BAFTAs? He's nothing to do with the film industry." And another despairing member of the public vented their anger over the fact that the star refuses to disappear from the spotlight, posting: "Why is David Beckham at the BAFTAS? He’s not a bloody actor, is anywhere a Beckham-free zone? And this is from a MU fan, stick to football Dave."

Some of the winners from the night included Christopher Nolan for Best Director for Oppenheimer, Robert Downey Jr. for Best Actor in a Supporting Role in Oppenheimer and Da'Vine Joy Randolph for Best Actress in a Supporting Role for her role as Mary Lamb in The Holdovers.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .