While Justin Timberlake was dating Cameron Diaz in the early noughties, a Playboy model claimed that she hooked up with the singer at Hugh Hefner's infamous grotto

Zoe Gregory, a former Playboy model, claimed that Justin Timberlake cheated on Cameron Diaz with her at Hugh Hefner's grotto.

The two reportedly met at a party at the infamous grotto. Zoe alleged that she and the Sexyback singer hooked up at that same party.

This isn't the first time that Justin has been accused of infidelity, though Zoe made it clear in her interview the two never had sex and only "fooled around." In her memoir released last year, Britney Spears went into detail about her relationship with Justin in the early noughties, accusing him of cheating on her.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Justin Timberlake plans tell-all TV documentary amid fears new album will flop

Image: WireImage) WireImage)

In an interview with DailyMail.com, the British model said that Justin declined her advances at first, making it clear to her that he was in a relationship with Cameron. Zoe teased him that the Charlie's Angels actress was "not with you now," which eventually led to Justin stripping down to his skivvies and jumping in the pool.

"He didn't want to look like a wimp. We both got in the grotto and we both got our kit off – down to his shorts – and we ended up fooling around," Zoe said, "I didn't have sex with him, but we had a fondle and we made out."

She continued: "I just wanted to tick him off my list, to be honest. It was literally a five-minute thing and from what I can remember, he was decent. But I was so scared of getting caught that I couldn't continue for too long. Before it could go any further, we both put our clothes back on and said goodbye."

Image: FilmMagic) FilmMagic)

Cameron and Justin later broke up and the two went on to marry singer Benji Madden and actress Jessica Biel respectively. Justin and Jessica have been married since 2012 and share two children.

Last year, Britney Spears released her highly anticipated memoir The Woman In Me and wrote about her highly publicised relationship with Justin. Besides claiming that Justin encouraged her to abort their baby, she said that the singer cheated on her constantly and broke up with her through text.

Justin and his team are reportedly worried that the negative publicity from Britney's book will affect his upcoming album, Everything I Thought I Was.

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.