Loyal BBC Radio 1 fans were enraged on Friday when Jordan North announced he was quitting the drivetime show after three years - and Jamie Laing was unveiled as his replacement

Jamie Laing has hit back at complaints BBC Radio 1 is being reduced to a ‘posh boys club’ after the shock decision was made to hand him a prime hosting slot.

The 35-year-old former Made In Chelsea star faced a backlash on Friday when it was revealed he would be replacing 34-year-old former I’m A Celebrity… Get Me Out Of Here! contestant Jordan North as a host on the radio station’s drive time show. Jordan had co-hosted the dive time slot from Monday to Thursday, 3.30pm to 6pm, alongside 34-year-old Vick Hope since September 2021, but he is quitting the BBC with rumours rife he will take over Capital Radio’s breakfast slot after Roman Kemp revealed last week that he is stepping down from that role.

Jamie’s new role has not gone down well with Radio fans - with many taking to social media to slam his appointment. The star himself has already hinted he has been left hurt by the backlash as he shared a screenshot of negative reports at the end of the week, writing online: “[First] comment in and might be a bit too truthful…probably stop there for the day.”

Image: Jamie Laing / Instagram) Jamie Laing / Instagram)

Now he has shared a longer post - which appeared on his Instagram page after radio fans raged online, with one writing: “Ffs radio 1 has turned into the posh boys club.” Jamie seems keen to assure radio fans that he will be aiming to win their support when he finally takes over the role.

He wrote: “Guys, firstly I’m beyond excited to be joining the amazing Vick Hope on BBC Radio 1's drivetime show. Jordan North is a complete pro/legend, he's left some really big shoes to fill so I’m going to do my absolute best to do him and the show justice, and to be working alongside the insane Vick Hope is amazing.

“I’ve always loved music and radio and grew up a Radio 1 fan, so to be joining the BBC Radio 1 family officially feels unreal. Lot's of you may know I'm never happier than when in front of the 1 mic, chatting to people, sharing stories, having fun and to continue that on drive time is going to be wild in the best way. I will pour everything I have into making it the best show I possibly can for the listeners who love it so much. now, let's go!! Radio 1 baby! Jamie.”

Jamie already co-hosts the Radio 1 podcast 6 Degrees from Jamie and Spencer alongside Spencer Matthews. He first found fame as a reality star on E4’s Made In Chelsea - which he appeared on from 2011 until 2022. He own a confectionary company called Candy Kittens and is worth a reported £7.1 million.

Jamie first shared his new radio gig news via social media on Friday, prophetically writing: “Well this is big news….@bbcradio1 have for some reason trusted me to co-host the Drive Time slot with @vicknhope. This is a very proud moment!! Don’t really know what to say apart from, thank you and mum I’ve made it…. What possibly could go wrong.”

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads.