Two people have been arrested on charges of murder and abuse of a corpse after the discovery of a girl's body encased in concrete and a boy's remains in a suitcase in Colorado, according to police and public jail records.

Two people have been arrested on charges of murder and abuse of a corpse after the discovery of a girl's body encased in concrete and a boy's remains in a suitcase.

Police in Colorado, US, announced the arrest of Corena Rose Minjarez, 36, on Friday, and county jail records show the second suspect, Jesus Dominguez, 35, also was in custody as of Sunday.

Police found the girl's remains in a metal container filled with concrete in a storage unit last month, according to authorities. The unit was being cleared out after the rent wasn't paid. As part of the investigation, police began searching for two children last seen in the summer of 2018, Jesus Dominguez Jr. and Yesenia Dominguez.

READ MORE: Justin Mohn smirks in mugshot after 'decapitating dad and showing head in YouTube video'

Image: Pueblo Police Departmentl) Pueblo Police Departmentl) Image: Pueblo Police Departmentl) Pueblo Police Departmentl)

The children hadn't been reported missing, according to the police department's news release. Then the investigation led police to a vehicle owned by Minjarez in a scrap yard, where they found a boy's remains in a suitcase in the trunk of the car, police said. By February 15, DNA testing showed the remains belonged to the two missing children.

Police did not offer details on any relation between the victims and the two arrested. Court records show both are being held on a $2million bond, and court hearings are scheduled for Wednesday. Available court records did not identify attorneys for Minjarez and Dominguez who could comment on their behalf.

Click here to follow the Mirror US on Google News to stay up to date with all the latest news, sports, and entertainment stories

Image: Pueblo Police Departmentl) Pueblo Police Departmentl)

At the beginning of February, authorities began searching for two missing children after police discovered a child's remains encased in concrete earlier this year.

A spokesperson for Pueblo Police Department explained: "Officers arrived and learned a person located a metal container in a storage unit that was filled with hardened concrete. Based on the information learned during the initial investigation, Pueblo Police Special Victims Unit and Crime Scene Investigations Unit responded and took over the investigation."

The force added: "During the investigation, the metal container was searched, and the remains of a child were located within the container."

Join the Mirror's SMS news service to get the biggest breaking stories delivered straight to your phone. Click here to subscribe.

Pueblo Police treated the death as a homicide. As part of the ongoing investigation that culminated with these two arrests, authorities sought public assistance in confirming the "location and safety" of nine-year-old Yesenia Dominguez and 10-year-old Jesus Dominguez, who disappeared from the area in 2018.

The link between the missing children and the remains is not immediately clear, but Pueblo Police are keen to confirm the children's whereabouts in relation to the case. The kids haven't been seen since the summer of 2018 when they were first reported missing.

"Yesenia Dominguez was about three years old when she was last seen, and she would now be nine years old. Jesus Dominguez was about five years old when he was last seen, and he would now be roughly ten years old," the statement read.

Pueblo Police questioned two people of interest in the initial report about this case, but didn't make any arrests until now.