Manny Pacquiao was aiming to compete at the Olympics this summer in Paris but the Filipino legend won't be able to take part due to age limit rules that will be upheld

Manny Pacquiao's hopes of competing at the Olympics in 2024 after over after the International Olympic Committee chose to stick by their age limit rule.

The Filipino legend hung up his gloves in 2021 but was hoping to compete at the games in Paris this summer despite being 45 years old. The IOC, who oversee Olympic boxing after de-recognising the International Boxing Association governing body, confirmed on Sunday that they wrote to Olympic officials in Philippines explaining that the age limit for boxers would remain at 40.

Back in 2013 the age limit was raised from 34 to 40. It means the last Olympics that Pacquaio could've competed at was back in 2016 when Rio hosted the games, but he instead chose to be a senator in his homeland.

The Philippines Olympic body were hoping to get Pacquiao in as a “universality” entry, according to reports. These are free passes given to allotted countries who will have fewer athletes at the Games and struggle to have others qualify on merit. But the past sporting success for the Philippines has meant that their request wasn't granted.

"Universality places are not allocated to (teams) with an average of more than eight athletes in individual sports/disciplines at the last two editions of the Olympic Games,” the IOC said.

Pacquiao ended his hugely successful career in September 2021 at age 42 after 72 fights, winning 12 world titles at a record eight different weight divisions. When he hung up his gloves the Filipino admitted it was hard to accept his time in the ring was over.

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

He said: "It is difficult for me to accept that my time as a boxer is over. Goodbye, boxing…Thank you for changing my life when my family was desperate. You gave us hope. You gave me the chance to fight our way out of poverty. Because of you, I was able to inspire people all over the world. Because of you, I have been given the courage to change more lives.’’

Back in May 2011, Pacquiao lost a decision to Floyd Mayweather Jr in one of the most most lucrative bouts in the history of the sport. After seven more fights, Pacquiao retired from the sport after suffering a loss to Yordenis Ugas in August 2021.

At the last games in Tokyo Carlo Paalam claimed Olympic silver for the Philippines - he was edged out for flyweight gold by Britain's Galal Yafai.