Opting for a SIM-only deal has long been a tested way to get bigger amounts of data for a fraction of the price, not to mention you have better flexibility the next time you upgrade your phone. The latest deal from iD Mobile will give mobile users a chunk of data, EU roaming data, unlimited minutes and texts all for less than £5 a month.

Shoppers will also be able to claim cashback off their contract each month, a total that adds up to a huge £108 over the course of the 24-month deal. It can be found on Mobiles.co.uk, on its 54GB a month plan that's now just £4.50 a month.

Cheap SIM deal:

Get 54GB of data a month for £4.50 and save £108 with iD Mobile - BUY HERE

Originally priced at £9 a month shoppers are able to claim the price drop via cashback each month which is simply highlighted on their site. Clicking into the 'claim £108 by redemption' icon reveals the handy money-saving trick. On five months across the 24-month plan users can claim £21.60 back from Mobiles.co.uk each month - and it's not offered anywhere else.

For a little comparison the nearest data amount at Sky Mobile, the 50GB a month plan currently costs users £16 a month, and that's when applied to its double data deal - yes, that price is usually for the smaller 25GB SIM.

iD Mobile SIM only deals are regularly on our list here at Mirror Tech, thanks to the flexibility of your device. The SIM stays at the same rate each month no matter if you have the newest Samsung Galaxy S24 or Apple iPhone 15, not to mention you don't pay any upfront fees.

Users are tied into the 24-month plan but this also doesn't mean you can't switch your devices within this time should you need to - it's a win win. And we're not the only ones who back the provider.

The consumer team at Martin Lewis' Money Saving Experts also points users to the brand with its regular round-up of deals from the provider. One of its top picks being a 50GB a month SIM for a more expensive £8 a month.

Martin Lewis' team at Money Saving Expert also urge billpayers to switch providers and save on mobile costs, mainly aimed at those who are coming to the end of their phone contract. The team regularly pushes money-saving tips in their 'switching need to knows' where users are guided on the best way to unlock their handset, change providers and even haggle.