Emily Atack led the way in the fashion stakes when she walked the red carpet at this year's BAFTAs wearing a stunning white gown showing off her baby bump

Wearing a floor-length white gown, Emily Atack looked a picture of health and happiness as she walked the red carpet at this year's BAFTA Film Awards.

With her hair tied up in a lose bun with the front section framing her face, the Inbetweeners star, 34, gently placed a hand on her growing baby bump. The gown came complete with a matching cape and Emily complimented her look with a pair of matching shoes that had a pointed toe. Emily's pregnancy glow comes after she revealed that she was struggling to cope with two separate health issues as she hits 21 weeks of pregnancy.

Image: emilyatackofficial/Instagram) emilyatackofficial/Instagram)

The star. who admitted to dating Harry Styles many years ago, has been sharing updates of her journey on social media after going public with her baby news in January. The TV star is expecting her first child with step-cousin Dr Alistair Garner. But her experience has been far from an easy ride after suffering from exhaustion and painful heartburn.

She posted posting a picture of the Netflix TV drama One Day and claimed this is the only helping her get through her pain. She wrote: "Week 21 of pregnancy. Getting me through this week of utter exhaustion and hideous heartburn are these two." She also tagged the stars of the Netflix romance drama, Ambika Mod and Leo Woodall in the post. Emily and her boyfriend Dr Alistair recently moved in together ahead of their child's arrival.

The star only announced she was expecting her first child at the end of December last year and is due to give birth in April. At the time, she posted on Instagram: "Hello Everyone, it’s been a little while but I’m back with some news. I’m delighted to share with you all that we’re having a baby!! I’ve never been so happy and utterly terrified at the same time. "Please go easy on me."

She added: "Every day is mixed with thrill, fear, joy, hysteria, topped off with a lot of vomiting - a bit like when you’ve just stepped off of the Oblivion at Alton Towers on a hangover. I’ve got to know my body on such an insane level. It’s made me appreciate the one I’ve been given SO much, I’m doing my absolute best to make it a home for the little squid I’m growing. We can already sense the baby is reclined on a mattress of peanut butter and jam sandwiches in there, demanding more chocolate buttons. I’m so happy to be writing all of this to you all."

Emily continued: "You’ve always stuck by me through the years, do stick around to watch me enter my mum era. Christ. Let’s go." According to The Sun, Emily's boyfriend Dr Alistair is the son of her late uncle, Dr Stephen Garner, who married the star's aunt Jane Robbins in 1994.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads