Inside self-made billionaire Kylie Jenner's day as the Keeping up with the Kardashians star treated fans to a sneak peek inside her glamorous life

Kylie Jenner has given fans a glimpse inside her day as the self-made billionaire let fans see what she gets up to on an average day.

Kylie, 26, who earns a fortune thanks to her Kylie Cosmetics brand and famous lip-kit range, showed fans just what she gets up to behind the scenes.

The Keeping Up with the Kardashians showed she was just like everybody else as she woke up, brushed her teeth and grabbed a drink. The influencer then showed off her incredible figure in black leggings and a crop top as she stretched out for an early morning work-out the gym.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Kylie Jenner slammed by critics for 'disgusting' detail about Stormi's birthday party

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images) Image: Corbis via Getty Images) Corbis via Getty Images)

After showering using her own beauty cosmetics, the mum-of-two slipped on her sister Kim's ultra snug Skims range of loungewear as she went about her day. Kylie treated fans to a sneak peek inside her glam life as she posed up a storm for a photo-shoot. Fresh from the shoot, it was time for the jet-set life.

The brunette star boarded a private jet where she was joined by her older sister Kendall and a pal. The girls toasted their day with a celebratory shot. Fresh from the runway they headed to their awaiting luxury cars before driving off into the night, showing fans just what it's like living her VIP lifestyle for the day.

At the age of 21, Kylie earned the title of the world's youngest self-made billionaire. She has lived her life in the public eye since she was young and her career began when she was just a teenager.

At the age of 10, she debuted on the reality TV show Keeping Up with the Kardashians with her family and for over 10 years she established herself in the entertainment world. In 2015, she stepped into the beauty world with the launch of Kylie Cosmetics - initially creating lip kits and then expanding into skincare too.

Kylie, who's now a mum-of-two to son Aire, two, and daughter Stormi, six, is always streets ahead when it comes to her style.

A regular on FROWS around the world, the star has already launched her own fashion line clothing line, Kjy, which earned $1million in the first hour of the launch.

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.