Meghan Markle is 'desperate' to be Taylor Swift's friend as the Duchess of Sussex bids for a marketing boost and a revamp of her image, according to one royal expert

Meghan Markle 'desperate' to be Taylor Swift's friend in a bid to overhaul her image

Meghan Markle is said to be 'desperate' to be Taylor Swift's friend in a bid to overhaul her image, according to a source.

Royal commentator Kinsey Schofield talked about her theory as she joined Patrick Christys on GBN America. The debate centered around the launch of the Sussex's revamped website, when pop superstar Taylor came up.

Kinsey said: "Meghan is desperate to be Taylor's friend." She added: "Meghan invited Taylor Swift on her podcast by sitting down and writing her a handwritten letter begging her to be on Archetypes."

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Meghan and Harry's children get new surname as couple abandon 64-year royal tradition

Image: REX/Shutterstock) REX/Shutterstock)

Kinsey went on to suggest Meghan would have been inspired by Taylor's presence at the Super Bowl, where she was treated like rock'n'roll royalty as she cheered on her boyfriend Travis Kelce.

Kinsey said Meghan would have been watching it all play out and thinking 'how do I do that?' on such a level. She claimed: "Meghan attended the Taylor Swift concert in Los Angeles, but she made sure People Magazine new she attended.

The expert also suggested Meghan "wants to be like Taylor Swift marketing wise". Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have hit headlines this week as they rebranded their website. Their previous site, Archewell, now automatically redirects to Sussex.com.

Image: Getty Images for TAS Rights Mana) Getty Images for TAS Rights Mana)

The plush website consistently refers to the couple by their official royal titles. It features a photograph of the pair, with the text 'The Office of Prince Harry & Meghan, The Duke & Duchess of Sussex', alongside a royal coat of arms.

It comes as the couple were accused of "exploiting he royal family." Harry and Meghan left the Royal Family to seek “financial freedom” and quickly set about signing commercial deals with streaming giants Netflix and Spotify for an estimated £100million.

But their decision to quietly launch a Sussex.com site, using Meghan’s coat of arms and detailing their children's prince and princess titles, was branded “exploitative in the extreme”.

Royal historian Hugo Vickers said: “It goes against everything the Sussexes promised they would not do. They are trading on their royal titles and associations in every way you look at it. From the royal coat of arms used, to their Sussex titles to the titles of their children. It doesn’t matter what parameters you judge it on, the man on the street would identify those behind the website as part of the royal family. It is exploitative in the extreme.”

Image: 2024 Getty Images) 2024 Getty Images)

The duo also changed their kids' names on their new look royal website - ending a 64-year-old royal naming tradition. Now fans have seen little Princess Lilibet and Prince Archie's names have had a makeover too.

Instead of being known as Mountbatten-Windsors, Archie and Lilibet have taken the surname Sussex since the Coronation. The new look website was launched on Monday, replacing their old Archewell site.

The surname Mountbatten-Windsor was decreed by the Privy Counsel - the official advisors to the late Queen Elizabeth II - in 1960 and applied to male-line descendants of Her Majesty and Prince Philip.

It has been an emotional few weeks for their family. King Charles was "touched" by Prince Harry's huge gesture of flying in from the States to see him in the UK following his cancer diagnosis. Prince Harry was granted a 30 minute audience with the King, before he headed off to prepare for treatment.

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.