Steve Wright's son Tom, who flew from Los Angeles to the UK to look after his father before his death, paid tribute to the late BBC star

Steve Wright's son Tom paid tribute to the late star after his death aged 69 on Monday.

The veteran broadcaster, known for his show ' Steve Wright In The Afternoon', passed away this week at 69. Police and paramedics were called to a flat in central London's Marylebone area on Monday morning. A spokesperson for the Metropolitan Police said: "A man in his 60s was pronounced dead at the scene. His next of kin have been informed."

"The death was unexpected, but is not being treated as suspicious. A report will be prepared for the coroner." they added. A few days after his death, his son Tom - who flew from Los Angeles to the UK to look after him before he died - took to social media to pay tribute to Steve.

"God rest your soul Dad, and thank you for all you for all the kind words from all the lives he touched and people that loved him; It's gonna be an intense few days, so catching up and hearing from old friends and new would mean more than anything else right now too..." he said.

Image: PA Archive/PA Images) PA Archive/PA Images) Image: Mirrorpix) Mirrorpix)

"Rough as it may be, I thank the Gods I'm sober, as this would have straight up killed me even a couple of years ago after losing Mum over the pandemic in the same way without. Still, I will cherish every moment we shared and every memory we made, and it's not like I don't have a few shows to be working through whenever I miss his voice, though tears me up too much now to consider...

"But it means the world hearing from so many beloved friends of his and mine and I only hope to make him proud; and build on his legacy with kindness and love anyways I can! Love you all and miss you already Dad. getting to see him before he #ConnectionAsCure passed after flying back to take care of the old Blighter."

Earlier this week, London Ambulance Service confirmed they were called to Steve's address following "reports of an incident". Despite their best efforts, Wright was sadly pronounced dead at the scene. The BBC star was last on air on Sunday, presenting a pre-recorded special Valentine's Day edition of his Love Songs programme on Radio 2.

Tom's mum Cyndi died in July 2020 aged 65 at her home in West Sussex. A coroner ruled her death as non-suspicious. However, there wasn't enough evidence to "establish the cause." Steve and Cyndi tied the knot in 1985 after he proposed on air but they went their separate ways in 1999.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTubeand Threads .