Prince Harry has been in Canada to promote the 2025 Invictus Games, and while in Vancouver, the Duke of Sussex gave a rare televised interview to Good Morning America

Exclusive: Prince Harry's televised interview 'was for PR' but he is 'keen to build bridges'

Prince Harry 's televised interview "was for PR", according to an expert who also thinks that the Duke is "keen to build bridges" with his family in the UK.

On Friday, the Duke of Sussex sat down for a tell-all interview with Good Morning America host Will Reeve. Harry gushed over his wife as he opened up about their life since leaving the Royal Family and moving to Montecito, California.

The Duke also touched upon his father's recent shock cancer diagnosis, how he flew to the UK as soon as he heard about the King's ill health, and also touched on how he loves his family and has more trips to the UK in the pipeline.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Harry and Meghan advised to move away from using royal titles amid 'huge brand rebuild'

Image: GMA/Twitter) GMA/Twitter)

And now a PR guru has weighed in on Harry’s latest TV interview with Good Morning America, with Lynn Carratt from Press Box PR telling us that "it was, of course, for PR".

She went on to add: "He was in Canada to promote the Invictus Games and wanted to generate as much publicity for the Games as possible. It’s no different to any other celebrity or any other member of the Royal Family doing interviews to promote their work or a project they’re involved in."

Touching on the Prince and Princess of Wales, Lynn noted how in 2022, William and Kate took over BBC Radio One’s Newsbeat to present a mental health special to promote their Heads Together campaign, adding that PR like Harry's recent interview is "the norm".

Giving us some insight into her thoughts on the GMA interview, Lynn told us: "In all honesty, during the interview, Harry was very clever in the answers he gave. When Will Reeve asked him about his outlook on the King's health, he replied: 'That stays between me and him.' I suspect that will have been music to Royal Households' ears."

She added: "There was nothing salacious or any huge revolutions that came out of the interview, and no harm or embarrassment was caused. It’s one of the most together interviews I’ve seen Harry do in a long time."

Touching on another answer in the interview from Harry, Lynn referred to when Harry said: "I think any illness, any sickness brings families together. I see it time and time again, and that makes me very happy."

She said: "This, to me, hints that Harry is really keen on building bridges with his family and making amends for his past mistakes, and he is right. Illness does bring families together."

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .