Meghan Markle and Prince Harry travelled to Canada this week and she wore a sweater similar to the one she donned while posing for their official engagement photos

Meghan Markle's outfit choice during her trip to Canada this week appeared to be a sweet nod to her look while posing for her engagement photos with Prince Harry.

The Duchess of Sussex was in British Columbia this week and attended some events to celebrate one year to go before the Invictus Games 2025 in the country. She was pictured wearing white trousers paired with a cream colour sweater and a long coat, paired with a blue warm hat.

Her sweater appeared similar to the Victoria Beckham cashmere one that she wore for her official engagement photos back in December 2017. Meanwhile, Town and Country suggested the crewneck sweater she wore this week could be from minimal brand Co.

READ MORE: Meghan Markle's quiet nod to Princess Diana with chic and royal-inspired outfit in Canada

Image: REX/Shutterstock) REX/Shutterstock) Image: WireImage) WireImage)

While it is not clear if the sweater she wore was the same one she donned for her engagement photos, the two appear very similar. Meghan also wore her three-stone engagement ring that Harry used to propose.

She was seen without it at the Invictus Games in September last year as it was being serviced because a setting came loose. The ring was designed with the help of Cleave & Company - Queen Elizabeth II's regular jeweller - and features a large cushion-cut center diamond sourced from Botswana, where the Sussexes spent time together at the beginning of their relationship, as well as two side stones from Princess Diana's jewellery collection.

And while in Canada this week, Meghan also appeared to make a quiet yet sweet nod to her late mother-in-law Princess Diana with a chic outfit. Yesterday, Harry and Meghan were at the Hillcrest Community Centre in Vancouver for a wheelchair curling event. While there, the Duchess looked extremely elegant in a £1,028 Sentaler cape in a dark camel hue, with shawl collar details, and a belt that cinched her figure in at the waist.

Image: REX/Shutterstock) REX/Shutterstock)

She paired her chic look with some gloves, which might have been a sweet nod to Princess Diana. Members of the Royal Family have long worn gloves because they can help maintain cleanliness and hygiene, especially when interacting with numerous people at events where handshakes and close contact are common.

Princess Diana often sported gloves when attending events or engagements. The former Princess of Wales was also a lover of wearing beige-coloured coats, which makes Meghan's outfit resemble something her mother-in-law would have worn even more.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

The week has seen a flurry of announcements from the Sussexes. The duchess signed a deal with Lemonada Media to record new podcast shows, and the company will distribute her previous series. Meghan's Archetypes podcast about female stereotypes ran for just one series before her lucrative deal with Spotify ended in 2023.

The couple also relaunched their Archewell website, the name of their foundation, rebranding it The Office of Prince Harry and Meghan, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex. The launch of the site comes as the King's slimmed-down monarchy has been put under pressure, as Charles postpones all public-facing duties because of his cancer diagnosis and the Princess of Wales is out of action for the immediate future after abdominal surgery.

Harry, who lives in California with his wife and their two children, Prince Archie and Princess Lilibet, flew to the UK last week to see the King. He visited without Meghan and their children, less than 24 hours after the announcement about Charles' health. But there was no meeting with his brother, the Prince of Wales, after Harry spent around 45 minutes at Clarence House seeing their father.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.