Bayern Munich's season went from bad to worse as they were beaten at Bochum with Thomas Tuchel's press conference cancelled ahead of internal talks with the manager's future unclear

Bayern Munich cancelled Thomas Tuchel's press conference after their damaging loss at Bochum with talks set to be held over his future.

The Bavarians fell to a third defeat in the space of eight days as they were undone on the road, which leaves them eight points off Bundesliga leaders Bayer Leverkusen. Tuchel has not yet been in charge for a year but the club are facing a season without any silverware.

As a result his future remains uncertain beyond this season, but if the poor run of results continues Bayern have shown themselves willing to axe managers midseason. It has been reported that directors and other leading figures will meet to discuss their next moves.

The club's CEO Jan-Christian Dreesen did issue a public show of support for Tuchel, confirming he would be in charge for their game against RB Leipzig next week.

He went on to say: “I don’t believe in these monstrous statements of support for coaches. I know what you want to hear, but these oaths of loyalty are already over after a week. That's why I'm saying it in my own way. That's not a topic we're dealing with at the moment. We have to move on to the next ones Concentrate on games."

Bayern were beaten in midweek by Lazio which means they must attempt to overturn a Champions League deficit when they meet in the second-leg of their last 16 clash. Last weekend they were also hammered by title rivals Bayer Leverkusen, who secured a 3-0 success.

Tuchel claimed everything that could've gone wrong against Bochum did go wrong and accepted that the pressure will ramp up following another reverse. "That happens with every defeat," he said. "The manner is crucial and that was okay today.

"It was extremely unfortunate, which is why the 90 minutes are different from the second half against Lazio and also over long stretches from the defeat against Leverkusen. It was a bit of Murphy's Law as to what could happen against us. Whatever could go wrong, went wrong.

The Bayern boss also admitted that Bayern face the prospect of losing the Bundesliga title for the first time since 2012 and said their chances were "not so realistic at the moment. But last season we believed in it until the end and were rewarded. We will maintain that. But the prerequisite is that we get on track."

Join our new WhatsApp community and receive your daily dose of Mirror Football content. We also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don't like our community, you can check out any time you like. If you're curious, you can read our Privacy Notice.