The Apprentice star Akshay Thakrar has revealed he was glad he didn't win the BBC competition and go into business with Lord Alan Sugar after being fired from the show

A former The Apprentice star has shared his true feelings about losing out on an investment from Lord Alan Sugar.

Akshay Thakrar appeared on series 16 of the hit BBC programme which sees a string of entrepreneurs battle it out each week to land a business deal from Lord Sugar. Ahead of his series airing, Akshay said he was a man who believed sleeping was a "waste of time" and his first word was "profit".

"My friends call me AK47 because I'm a killer salesperson," he added. But during the 2022 series, Akshay was fired by Lord Sugar after the ninth task.

Speaking exclusively to the Mirror, the businessman said: "I didn't need to win the investment to win at business. I didn't even take my business on the show, I wasn't allowed to take it on. I run a sports betting and tipping AI platform, Tips360, that's taken off for me. We work on a subscription basis and provide sports betting tips, and we're growing that at a really fast rate at the moment.

Image: PA Photo/BBC/Boundless) PA Photo/BBC/Boundless)

"If I'd have won the investment, I wouldn't have been able to do that because it wasn't my main business on the show. It's made me realise 'Wow, this opportunity was priceless, I'm so grateful, I'm grateful to everybody there', but in a way, I'm glad I didn't win because I've got 100% ownership of my own business and it's working."

Reflecting on his time on the show, the businessman added: "It's quite nerve-wracking when you watch and you know, 9 million people are watching," and explained that he sat on X, formerly known as Twitter looking at comments from viewers. But while people had differing opinions, he explained this didn't matter to him as he had one thing on his mind – business.

"I went to a service station and as soon as I got in people now, two or three years later, are like 'Oh Akshay can I get a selfie?'" he said of his fame, adding that while he only has around 50,000 followers on Instagram, hes' more recognisable than an influencer with over one million, which he's able to leverage in business.

Akshay, who is engaged to Harpreet Kaur who won the show, went on to say: "I didn't win the show, but again, I'm so grateful for that as well because now my business is worth way more than £250K for the 50%. Had I won the show, it would have been amazing, I would have got an amazing business partner but it makes you think 'Wow, things happen for the best'.

"I'm so grateful I didn't win because that show allowed me to grow my business in a way where I didn't actually need the investment." But when Akshay isn't buried in business work, he's currently finalising the plans for his wedding to Harpreet later this year. "We're getting married in May," he exclaimed, adding: "Less than two years after the show. If you'd have asked me when I was doing my interviews, I'd have been like 'Huh? No', let alone getting married to a – it's been life-changing.

"We were going to have an international wedding initially," he explained, before going on to say: "But logistics-wise, the UK worked out better. We're keeping it intimate with our family but it is going to be a big bad boy wedding with our families, everyone is going to have an amazing time.

"It's going well, I don't think Harpreet would like me saying it's 50/50 planning, I think it's about 75/35."

Follow Mirror Celebs onTikTok,Snapchat,Instagram,Twitter,Facebook,YouTubeandThreads.