Comedian and 1% Club host Lee Mack has previously said that no one can believe his wife of almost 20 years Tara met him before he got rich and famous

Lee Mack has said his wife is so attractive that no one believes they met before he became famous.

The comic has been with his other half Tara since they met at London’s Brunel University back in the mid-Nineties when the pair reportedly shared a flat. It was around this time that Lee became a comedian, first coming to prominence by winning the So You Think You’re Funny award for new stand-up comedians at the Edinburgh Fringe in 1995.

His career took off after that with his stints on Have I Got News for You, Live at the Apollo, 8 Out Of 10 Cats and as a team captain on Would I Lie to You? In 2005 the couple tied the knot and now live in leafy East Molesey, Surrey with their three kids Arlo, 20, Louie, 18, and 17-year-old and Millie. Arlo and Millie have followed their famous dad into acting and both have starred in his hit comedy show Not Going Out.

Image: Jonathan Hordle/ITV/REX/Shutterstock) Jonathan Hordle/ITV/REX/Shutterstock) Image: PA) PA)

Despite being happily married for almost 20 years now, 1% Club host Lee says people still assume Tara was attracted to him for his fame and fortune. Speaking on a podcast he revealed: "We talked the other day with Roisin Conaty. Her sister met Tara and said 'I assume you two have been together after you became a comedian and got a bit of money'.

"And I said 'No, no, we met before I ever was a comedian when we were at university.' And do you know what she said? 'Did you save her life or something?' I thought that's an incredibly bold statement to make after five minutes of meeting someone."

Lee rarely speaks about his family life, but in a recent interview shared they have a strange way of holidaying together – and it’s all down to the 55-year-old’s chronic fear of flying. He revealed he is so scared of stepping foot on a plane, that he often opts to drive himself abroad instead.

He previously said he hadn’t flown since he had to go on a special British Airways course to calm him down enough to get back from a Children in Need trip to Turkey with Frank Skinner over 10 years ago. He told The Mirror: "If we go on holiday - and we have done for the last couple of years – Tara has flown with the kids and I’ve met them there. And I’m including Barcelona, I’m including Switzerland.

"You know why – they won’t let me sit up front and drive it. I’ve asked. I’ve said 'Yeah, of course I’ll fly – can I drive?' and they said 'No, and you don’t drive a plane, you fly it'. And I’ve said 'Forget it then, I’ll go in the car'. I went on tour last year with Rob Brydon and David Mitchell and I did all my own driving."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTubeand Threads

Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us atwebcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033