BAFTA-nominated actress Emily Blunt and singer Michael Buble dated for three years back in the '00s and the question of why they broke up has never been fully explained. We take a look back at their relationship

They are happily married with children - but not to each other. Emily Blunt and Michael Buble were once one of Hollywood's hottest young couples, enjoying a three-year relationship back in the '00s.

The actress, who is nominated for Best Supporting Actress for Oppenheimer at tonight's BAFTAs, met Michael, 48, backstage at one of his gigs in 2005 and by all accounts, the former couple fell head over heels for one another. The Feeling Good singer said at the time: "Every time I see her onscreen, I fall in love with her all over again" while Emily confessed to having "tears in my eyes" when she watched her beau onstage.

But three years later it was all over and in traditional celebrity fashion, Michael was quick to blame their conflicting schedules. "In my business it’s tough to go out with another artist because you’re never together," he said. "You’re lucky if you can see the person once every two to three months and with Em, she was on her movies and I was doing my thing so it made it more difficult."

Image: WireImage) WireImage) Image: WireImage) WireImage)

Fans suspected more than a lack of time had gone down in the relationship, with rumours swirling about the singer being unfaithful. In 2007, before Michael and Devil Wears Prada star Emily split, a woman called Tiffany Bromley came forward to claim she had been in a ten year sexual relationship with the singer, sharing shirtless snaps of him and branding him a "cheater" and a "rat".

The former couple have never addressed the cheating rumours but Michael has recently been more candid about his past, saying: "I was a jerk and I was careless and reckless with the hearts of women I was with. And I got my karma. I earned it.

"I got my butt and heart kicked and it hurt me enough that I looked in the mirror and I didn't want it to happen again," continued the crooner. "If I wanted to be a happy guy and really fall in love, I would have to love myself."

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

Emily, 40, admitted the break up was "complicated" but said she still loved Michael's family, particularly his mother Amber. Thankfully, both stars have gone onto find true love with other people.

The Golden Globe winning actress married The Office USA actor John Krasinski in 2011 with two daughters, Hazel and Violet. Michael wed Luisana Lopilato, an Argentinian actress, in 2011 and the couple have four children, Noah, Elias, Vida and Cielo.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTubeand Threads.