William, Prince of Wales, attended the 77th British Academy Film Awards on Sunday in his role as BAFTA president - and sat through an awkward joke about the royal family

Prince William proved he’s more than happy to laugh at a joke at his expense as he awkwardly giggled his way through the EE BAFTAs Film Awards 2024.

The 41-year-old Prince of Wales was attending the glitzy award ceremony at the Royal Festival Hall in London on Sunday night - attending in his capacity as President of BAFTA, a role he has held since 2010. The night was a success for the makers of blockbuster film Oppenheimer which secured seven awards after being nominated for 13 of them.

The ceremony was presided over by 52-year-old Doctor Who star David Tennant - who was guiding the audience through the night of nominations and wins. And while his own string of joked raised some laughs, some of the other celebs taking to the stage to announce categories and declare the winners also won chuckles.

Image: BBC) BBC)

Comedian and actor Nick Mohammed was one of the stars to take to the stage over the course of the awards show. And he cracked a joke at the Prince of Wales’s expense. Addressing the audience, 43-year-old joked that there would be a procedure in terms of evacuation int he event of an emergency during the course of the awards show. He claimed there was a strict order over who would be evacuated: “Starting with me.” He then listed the order of those that would be evacuated - in order of importance, listing them as: “Then it’s the BAFTA trophies, followed by winners, nominees, publicists, everyone else, influencers.”

While his joke landed well and caused laughter in the Royal Festival Hall in London’s Southbank where the award show was hosted, hey then added: “Oh! And the royals! Sorry. Sorry! Sorry!” The cameras cut to Prince William who was laughing along with the rest of the room. The Prince had earlier talked to film fans while preparing to enter the award ceremony venue.

According to the MailOnline, film fans who were delighted to have an encounter with the Prince as they waited for autographs from movie stars. They report he was overheard telling the crowds that he was sad not to have watched as many of the nominated films as he would have liked as he has had: “other things on my mind”. He also told the film fans that he had watched Oppenheimer - but confessed: “I haven't seen Barbie yet.”

Image: BBC) BBC)

Prince William was noticeably alone when he joined the ceremony as his wife, Catherine, Princess of Wales, is still recovering following surgery last month. The 42-year-old was revealed to have undergone treatment for an unspecified medical issue in mid-January - and will be out of action until after Easter.

Last month, a statement from Kensington Palace explained that Princess Kate had responded well to treatment for an undisclosed health issue. The statement said: "The Princess of Wales has returned home to Windsor to continue her recovery from surgery. She is making good progress.

“The Prince and Princess wish to say a huge thank you to the entire team at The London Clinic, especially the dedicated nursing staff, for the care they have provided. The Wales family continues to be grateful for the well wishes they have received from around the world."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads.