Oppenheimer star Cillian Murphy has opened up on his hatred of being in the limelight as he revealed the 'life changing' decision to no longer take photos with fans

Cillian Murphy has admitted stopping fans taking photos with him has been "life changing" as he opened up on his hatred of the spotlight.

The actor, 47, has world-wide fame thanks to hit series Peaky Blinders as well as his latest role in Oppenheimer. He is currently up for a Best Actor award at the Oscars and BAFTAs. Yet despite his huge success, Cillian has admitted he finds the glare of the spotlight “challenging”.

The Tommy Shelby star is currently one of the worlds most celebrated actors, as Oppenheimer has no less than 13 Oscar nominations and he's already scooped up Golden Globe. Cillian's film and TV projects have resulted in him being recgonised in his day-to-day life, which is something he's trying to have some level of control over.

Image: FilmMagic) FilmMagic)

Speaking to GQ, he revealed he doesn't take photos with fans anymore. He said: "Once I started doing that it changed my life. I just think it’s better to say hello, and have a little conversation. I tell that to a lot of people, you know, actor friends of mine, and they’re just like: I feel so bad. But you don’t need a photo record of everywhere you’ve been in a day."

Opening up on fame, the actor admitted it "comes in waves" and then "things go back to normal". Cillian and his wife of 19 years Yvonne McGuinness share teenage sons Malachy, 17, and 16-year-old Aran. They keep their personal life private and recently moved back to Irelaned as he and Yvonne wanted their sons to be raised Irish.

Earlier this month, he opened up on fame on BBC Radio 4’s Desert Island Discs with Lauren Laverne. Cillian said: “I have struggled with it in the past and, you know, it’s not something I’m ever totally at ease with. But I think you have to, like, choose to enjoy it. And I think that you can do that in your brain, just make that alteration and it’s easier then. I’ll have my wife and my kids with me, and that’s been lovely. Just go with it, that’s my attitude.”

He explained having his family around as “crucial” to feeling grounded, and added: “To have a really secure, solid base is important. It’s been really important for me to have that safe place. I think I certainly do, where it’s just like an island of comfort and ease.” Cillian found "a little bit of a relief" at the end of Peaky Blinders' season six following its huge success.

The Irish star explained: “It was good to have a little respite from the show. I think we all needed a break from each other.” However, The Mirror exclusively revealed the role reprisal could happen sooner than we think, as Cillian and Steven were spotted deep in conversation recently, prompting speculation Cillian is about to sign up for the movie adaptation of the hit BBC show.

The March issue of British GQ is available via digital download and on newsstands on February 27th.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTubeand Threads.