Meghan Markle has seemingly copied Queen Elizabeth's fashion sense in one key way, which comes after the Duchess' trip to Canada with her husband Prince Harry

Meghan Markle has seemingly copied Queen Elizabeth's personal style in one key way, with the Duchess giving a subtle nod to the late monarch on her recent Canada trip.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex recently travelled from California to Canada for the Invictus Games Vancouver Whistler 2025's One Year to Go celebrations. While in Vancouver, the couple was seen heading out on several occasions to meet with fans, participate in demonstrations, and promote the upcoming games.

While in Canada and on each of Meghan's outings, the Duchess looked impeccably styled, with her often sporting a chic ensemble. And it seems that the Duchess took inspiration from the late Queen, with her making a quiet statement within her recent looks.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Meghan Markle and Prince Harry 'cannot be trusted', says Prince William

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images) Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

Both Meghan and the Queen share a similar style, although not immediately noticeable. The sweet way in which Meghan mirror's the Queen's style is how she often wears a full outfit of just one colour, or an outfit that comprises of a solid monochrome colour palette - just how the late monarch would.

The late Queen was known for colour-blocking her outfits. She would often be seen in an all-green look, or an all-pink outfit, with her rarely mixing colours or sporting prints or patterns. And it seems this style is similar to Meghan's.

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images) Image: WireImage) WireImage)

This comes after Meghan made one major change to her face, with the stark alteration noticeably visible while on her recent trip. The Duchess usually sports thinner eyebrows, with her rocking some fuller bushier brows on her trip to Canada.

For all the latest news on the Royal Family, read The Mirror's live royal blog.

While on her trip to Canada, Meghan has wowed with both her natural beauty and her fashion choices. Just three days ago, Meghan wore almost £8,000 worth of clothes in just 12 hours while in Vancouver. This came before the couple's final appearance at a wheelchair curling demonstration, where she donned a £1,000 camel-coloured cape and some £260 gloves.

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .