Sophie Ellis-Bextor and The Feeling guitarist husband Richard Jones have been married since 2005 and have five sons together - the first of whom was conceived very quickly

Sophie Ellis-Bextor and her husband Richard Jones saw their romance get off to a raring start - as they fell pregnant practically immediately.

The Murder on the Dancefloor singer and her 44-year-old husband - who is bass guitarist in chart-topping band The Feeling - have five children together. The 44-year-old star and Richard share sons Sonny, 19, Kit, 14, Ray, 11, Jesse, seven, and Mickey, four, with the family expanding weeks after they first started dating.

Sophie and Richard’s romance began in 2003 - although they had known each other a year prior. They had been in other relationships when they first met, but when those romances collapsed, they struck up one of their own. The passion in the relationship was clearly strong - as the duo discovered they were to welcome their first child just six weeks after they began officially dating. They went on to tie-the-knot in 2005 and welcomed the other four kids.

Image: Instagram/ @missjanetellis) Instagram/ @missjanetellis)

Sophie previously told the Daily Mail: “Our relationship was dramatic early on. We found out we were having a baby when we'd only been dating for six weeks. Then I gave birth two months early. So, comically, our baby was born when we'd only been going out for eight months.”

Richard has also opened up about the electric attraction between him and Sophie in the past. He previously said: “Something kind of smacked us in the face. The chemistry was incredible – it was like nothing I've ever experienced." Sonny was followed by younger brothers Kit, Ray, Jesse and Mickey. Sophie recently shared the news that Sonny has moved out of the family home. She revealed on This Morning: “My oldest son is 19 now and he's just moved out to live [near] my mum, 10 minutes away, it's quite wholesome!”

She also explained that not all of her boys are music lovers - despite both parents being chart-topping stars. She explained: "I have five boys but I don't have five of the same person some of them love music and others don't. I have one still at home who never wants to come to any of my gigs. But the majority of them like music actually.

"Five of anything is a lot. I love the chaos of big family life luckily. There are always things happening. One is running another has brought four friends over. It's a good antidote to the darkness sometimes. They never ask 'How did your gig go?' They just tell me about their day and I like that."

Sophie and Richard’s youngest child arrived in late 2019. Sharing the news of the arrival at the time, Sophie told fans: “He’s here! Mickey Jones born today weighing 7lb 1oz and he’s absolutely gorgeous. Welcome to our quirky little family, sweet boy. We’re so glad you’re here safe.”

More recently, she has addressed the question of having more kids and didn’t exactly rule it out. She said: “It's probably time to just watch them grow up now. It's hard though. Tricky. I am not one of those people who can form the sentence: ‘I am done’ - I've never been able to form the sentence.”

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads.