Made In Chelsea star Jamie Laing is the new presenter of Radio 1's daily Going Home Show, but many listeners have shared their anger that he is replacing 'working class' Jordan North

Jamie Laing has responded to backlash as it was revealed he is joining the line-up of broadcasters on BBC Radio 1.

The Made in Chelsea star, 35, was revealed as Jordan North’s replacement on the daily Going Home Show, which airs every weekday between 3.30pm and 6pm on Friday. Jamie will be joining Vick Hope in the booth, while Jordan, 34, will move to the Capital FM Breakfast Show, replacing Roman Kemp.

The surprise announcement hasn’t gone down well with all of Radio 1’s listeners, some of whom have been very vocal on X, formerly Twitter, about the new appointment. One disgruntled fan fumed: “A person from a working class background who worked their arse off to attempt to achieve their dream of being a radio presenter is more deserving of the opportunity.”

Image: Hoda Davaine/Dave Benett/Getty I) Hoda Davaine/Dave Benett/Getty I) Image: Instagram/ @jordannorth1) Instagram/ @jordannorth1)

Another raged: "When Nick [Grimshaw] went it was so sad, when Scott [Mills] and Chris [Moyles] left at the same time it hurt, when Annie Mac left, it was heartbreaking, Jordan North leaving is painful, if and when Greg [James] leaves as I feel it's soon, it'll feel like a death and Radio 1 will die."

Showing that he’s not oblivious to the mixed response to his new gig, he shared a single screenshot from the comments section of an article about his new job published by the Mail Online. It read: “You’re kidding Jamie Laing. Who on this earth would want to listen to his pompous nonsense. We need Meritocracy brought back in order for ordinary people to stand any chance of being considered.”

Jamie added: “[First] comment in and might be a bit too truthful…probably stop there for the day.”

However, not everyone is dreading his foray into national radio. On his Instagram announcement post, a studio shot of the reality star smiling widely with Radio 1 branding, his famous friends flocked to the comments.

Image: Instagram/ @jordannorth1) Instagram/ @jordannorth1)

Oliver Proudlock commented: “My boy. So incredibly proud of you. YEAH BABY!”, and there were equally buoyant posts from Sam Thompson, plus Strictly stars Dianne Buswell, Oti Mabuse and Zoe Sugg.

On X there was also support for the Candy Kittens founder. One person posted: “Jordan North annoys me. Jamie is actually hilarious. I’ve listened to Radio 1 forever and at my age should probably be listening to Radio 4 lol change is good.”

It was announced that after ten years on the station, York-born Jordan would be stepping down from the network. In a statement, Radio 1 said: "Radio 1 will be saying goodbye to Jordan North. Jordan has been behind some of the most hilarious and entertaining moments on air over the years, and has been a constant source of inspiration for younger presenters. Thank you for everything.

"Jamie Laing will join Vick Hope to co-host Going Home on Radio 1 (15:30 – 18:00, Monday to Thursday), starting on Monday 4 March. Huge congratulations @JamieLaing_UK."

Jamie had previously covered for The Saturdays singer Mollie King who presents alongside Matt Edmondson. He said it was an "absolute dream" to land the job. "I've loved every minute that I've been on air with Radio 1 in recent years, so to be joining Vick on Drivetime is just incredible," he said. "I'm beyond excited to get started and keep listeners company on their journeys home."

Breaking his silence on his shock exit, Jordan posted a goodbye message to fans on his Instagram page. He penned: "Hello everyone I just wanted to take this opportunity to thank all my wonderful colleagues / talented producers at Radio 1 who many I consider to be friends for life and will miss greatly, you’ve all reached out to me over the past 24 hours and it really has meant a lot.

"To my amazing fellow presenters I wish I could thank you all personally, I’ve loved working with you it’s been an absolute blast! Big love to Katie Thisleton, Arielle Free, Ricky, Melvin & Charlie, Dean & Vicky, Clara Amfo, Matt & Molly, Scott Mills, Grimmy, all the rest of you fantastic lot, and of course my partner in crime Vick Hope…I’ll miss being on air with you every day.



"MOST IMPORTANTLY the biggest of thank yous to the fantastic listeners who have been really generous and always made me feel welcome, your kind words & messages have been so lovely, THANK YOU SO MUCH. I’ll be back soon, and can’t wait to see you all again," he teased.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .