Kanye West has been showing off his permanent titanium dentures, which the controversial rapper paid £675,000 to have installed after permanently removing his teeth

Kanye West caused a stir among fans when he replaced his teeth with titanium dentures worth $850,000 (£675,000), but one expert believes it's his wife who should be complaining the most.

The rapper debuted his new teeth last month on a date night with Bianca Censori at Chateau Marmont in Beverly Hills. Despite the romantic setting, it seems like the couple might not have had the chance to be intimate, as one expert believes Kanye's dentures would make kissing "a nightmare".

Speaking exclusively to The Mirror, Dr Safa Al-Naher said: "Oh, kissing would be a nightmare. I feel very sorry for his wife. I mean, it's quite obvious, massive metal chunks at the front of the mouth, there's going to be nothing pleasant about that."

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Taylor Swift and Travis Kelce 'excited for future' after smitten Super Bowl appearance

Image: Instagram) Instagram) Image: Instagram) Instagram)

Safa also suggested Kanye might encounter some personal issues with his new teeth. She explained: "The dentist who made them has said that basically it is a permanent denture and that he has had to not remove teeth but prepare the teeth, which means cut down the teeth somewhat.

"Problems are, anytime we start to cut down teeth, we run the risk of damaging the nerve so he might have nerve problems in the future and might need root canals." The expert also suggested cleaning could become an issue for Kanye.

She told us: "If they were removable grills then you could take them off and you could clean the teeth underneath and you can put them back in. The fact that this is fixed, you can't do any of that."

Image: Instagram) Instagram) Image: ye&blanca/Instagram) ye&blanca/Instagram)

Safa also said Kanye might struggle to "eat properly and speak properly and function properly". She explained the design of the rapper's new dentures is "quite thick at the front" which would cause the issues.

She also warned fans against following in Kanye's footsteps. Safa said: "The dentist has a responsibility to the patient I think. Really important that this kind of irreversible treatment is such a bad idea."

Kanye worried fans earlier this week as he shared a new clip of himself on Instagram. In the video, Kanye's lips seemed to be swollen and his top lip had a large lump on it. Many of his followers thought his new dentures were to blame and believed the metal might have cut him.

Dr Safa is Director and Principal Dentist at Serene.

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.