Pictures of Denton Loudermill in handcuffs went viral after gunmen opened fire at the Kansas City Chiefs' Super Bowl victory parade, where thousands of fans had gathered to celebrate the win

Kansas City man seen in handcuffs after mass shooting says he was drunk but not a killer

A man wrongly accused of injuring dozens in a mass shooting in Kansas City has broken his silence saying he had nothing to do with the violence and was drunk.

Photos of Denton Loudermill in handcuffs were circulated online after the massacre which injured 22 people and killed radio DJ and mum-of-two Lisa Lopez.

The photos showed Denton Loudermill in handcuffs and being arrested in the aftermath of the serious incident, leading people to speculate he was involved in the violence. However, he and his lawyer have confirmed this incident was not linked to the shooting on Wednesday at the Kansas City Chiefs Super Bowl Parade.

READ MORE: Teen 'who hung from power line for an hour after car crash' talks about life after losing her leg

His lawyer confirmed he was arrested for being intoxicated and not moving from the crime scene. He was released without an arrest or a citation. Two teenagers, both aged under 18, have now been charged over the shooting and are being held on gun and resisting arrest charges, a court statement said. Police earlier said the shooting was the result of an argument and was not connected to terrorism.

Speaking on behalf of Denton to clear his name his lawyer told KMBC: "I just want to clear my name that I had nothing to do with anything. I was just enjoying myself like everybody else."

Image: KMBC) KMBC)

"Mr Denton had several drinks, but so did a half million other people, including some of the Chiefs players. It's not a crime. It doesn't make you a mass shooter," attorney and justice advocate LaRonna Lassiter Saunders said.

"Mr Denton has received death threats over a lie, over misinformation. He didn't do anything wrong. He did not commit a crime. So please tell that. Get the truth out there. Help us clear his name. Help us save his life."

The two teenage suspects have now been charged with gun-related offenses and resisting arrest, the Jackson County Family Court division said on Friday.

The names of the teenagers charged have not been released and they will be prosecuted as minors. "It is anticipated that additional charges are expected in the future as the investigation by the Kansas City Police Department continues," the Office of the Juvenile Officer said in a statement.

Mother-of-two Lisa Lopez was killed and 22 people were injured in the gunfire when shots erupted amid the throng of fans gathered at a rally outside the city's Union Station after a parade through the city. Graves said Thursday that victims ranged from ages 8 to 47, with half under 16.

Image: KKFI/UPI/REX/Shutterstock) KKFI/UPI/REX/Shutterstock)

Police Chief Stacey Graves said investigators believe the shooting was triggered by a personal dispute between a small group, and the parade was not the target. Graves added preliminary findings show no connection to terrorism or homegrown extremism.

Police spokesperson Alayna Gonzalez said in an email that police are working with juvenile prosecutors "to review investigative findings and determine applicable charges. The juvenile court system determines the custody status of all juvenile arrests".

Graves said on Friday: "Our investigators have poured themselves into this investigation, and it continues. We will not relent until everyone who may have played a part in these crimes is apprehended so that they will be punished to the fullest extent of the law."