Since finding fame on the X Files alongside David Duchovny, Gillian Anderson has dated several famous faces. As she presents at the BAFTAs, The Mirror takes a look back at her love life...

Gillian Anderson boldly operates a free-spirited approach to her love life.

The iconic actress - who will present an award at the BAFTAs tonight - has won legions of fans with her direct words on matters of the heart, and has enjoyed two marriages, two long-term relationships and a slew of celebrity dates.

But for fans of The X-Files, the long-held obsession was whether the mother-of-three ever hooked up with her co-star David Duchovny, who played brooding agent Fox Mulder to her Dana Scully. The rumours certainly didn't calm down after they posed naked in bed for the cover of Rolling Stone magazine.

Sex Education star Gillian, who was born in Chicago but moved to London when she was two, is inspiringly unapologetic about her dating decisions. Here, The Mirror takes a look at her adventurous love life...

First husband

Gillian's first husband Clyde Klotz, was an assistant art director on The X-Files and is father of her daughter, Piper, 29. Gillian married Clyde in a Buddhist ceremony in Hawaii on New Year's Day, 1994 and Piper was born nine months later on September 25. "I got pregnant on my wedding night," Gillian said. "How old-fashioned is that?" She and Clyde divorced in 1997.

After her divorce, she started seeing British actor Adrian Hughes, followed by Hollywood producer Randy Stone, a former beau of Barbra Streisand. After Randy, actor Rod Rowland appeared on the scene with Gillian saying, "Rod is the first man who has made me happy. It's the real thing. He satisfies my every need." Despite those words, Rod was ditched in favour of New York restaurant owner Keith McNally.

Second husband

Image: WENN) WENN)

The Fall star married Kenyan-born foreign correspondent Julian Ozanne, 43, in Hawaii in 2004. They split just 16 months later. A statement released by the couple's solicitor said: "Gillian Anderson and Julian Ozanne are saddened to announce that their marriage is at an end.

"They are in the process of separating. At this difficult time they request their privacy is respected. There will be no further comment."

Gillian - who co-authored self-help book We: The uplifting manual for women seeking happiness - and Julian moved in together in London with Piper. They first met at a dinner party where Gillian thought he was "obnoxious". But she said they kept seeing each other around London and a "fondness developed into something else entirely."

Geri Halliwell's ex

Image: PA) PA)

After the split, she moved on with British businessman Mark Griffiths, who she met through friends when they were neighbours in London's Notting Hill area. Stressing that there had been no overlap with Julian, she told the Mirror: "The order of events was that I left my marriage and then I met Mark. I started a relationship and had a son in November 2006.

"Mark is one of the kindest people I have ever met. He has a very good head on his shoulders and part of me was ready to be grounded. I recognised that in him. That is exactly what has taken place - a grounding for all of us. And really paying attention to what is precious.

"One of the negative sides of my spontaneity is that I had a tendency not to appreciate what was happening. It felt that my life was flying by. So I felt a need to enjoy what was going on and what I've got. I wanted to slow down.

"Things just happened particularly quickly. It is not in my nature to slow down."

She had sons Oscar, 17, and Felix, 15, with Mark, who owned a wheel-clamping business and was previously linked to Geri Halliwell. They split in 2012, with a representative confirming to Us Weekly : "Gillian Anderson and her partner Mark Griffiths have amicably separated after six years together."

Chris Martin

Following the Coldplay star's 2014 split from Gwyneth Paltrow, Gillian was rumoured to have taken a shine to the muso. A source told The Sun: "They're an unlikely combination but there's definitely chemistry between them.

"Chris has always been keen to keep his personal life private so, as expected, the blossoming romance is very low-key."

It is not clear what came next, although in 2017, Chris went on to date actress Dakota Johnson, who he remains with to this day.

Peter Morgan

Image: Getty Images for Moët and Chandon) Getty Images for Moët and Chandon) Image: Getty Images Europe) Getty Images Europe)

Gillian and Peter, who was a screenwriter on Netflix series The Crown, were first romantically linked in 2016 and enjoyed a four year relationship. They both lived in London but kept separate homes.

She once told The Guardian : 'My partner and I don't live together. If we did, that would be the end of us. It works so well as it is and it feels so special when we do come together. There is nothing locking us in, nothing that brings up that fear of, "Oh gosh, I can't leave because what will happen to the house, how will we separate? I start to miss the person I want to be with, which is a lovely feeling."

However they split in 2020 – with Peter making headlines after very quickly moving on with his long-time friend Jemima Goldsmith. Gillian was said to be 'bemused' by the news just weeks after they had parted ways.

But just a month later, it emerged that his new romance had come to an abrupt end, with Peter going back to Gillian, leaving Jemima 'shocked and confused'. Adding to the confusion, it was subsequently claimed that they'd split for good.

However, Gillian and Peter seemingly confirmed their reunion last April by stepping out at the wrap party for season 6 of The Crown at the Natural History Museum in London. Gillian starred in season 4 as Margaret Thatcher.

David Duchovny

Image: Getty) Getty)

They worked together for 25 years but Gillian Anderson made one thing clear in an exclusive chat with The Mirror: David Duchovny does not feature in her Ex-Files.

While on screen their relationship left viewers wondering whether they would ever hook up romantically, Gillian says that off camera they were never very close. "I don't know much about David Duchovny. If you asked me 10 things about him I'd probably get nine of them wrong," she said ahead of the show's final in 2018.

"We were never close. It's true we spent more time together than we have in any other relationship but it doesn't mean we were close," she continued.

"Very often when you’re working long hours you may have a chit-chat between scenes but you’re not really standing around talking about personal lives. And very often you don't have meals either at work or outside of work together because you're in each other's company all the time. So I actually don’t know very much about David Duchovny, but we appreciate and respect each other."