Former Inbetweeners actress Emily Atack is one of the stars hitting the red carpet for this year's BAFTA Awards. The star, who is pregnant with her first baby, revealed she was getting ready at a posh London hotel hours before the bash

Actress Emily Atack has said that she is ready to show-off her baby bump at the BAFTA Awards tonight, as she prepares to join a host of stars at the London ceremony.

The 34-year-old Inbetweeners and I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! star is over the hump of the middle of her pregnancy and has shown on her Instagram Stories that she is relaxing with some luxury before hitting the red carpet later.

Hours before the event, Emily, who is expecting her first child with boyfriend Dr Alistair Garner, posted selfie of her lying back on a bed with her black topped pulled up to reveal her growing baby bump.

Image: emilyatack/Instagram) emilyatack/Instagram) Image: emilyatack/Instagram) emilyatack/Instagram)

Joking about her upcoming appearance at the awards ceremony, Emily wrote on the snap: "BAFTA ready". She was looking in fine form just days after she revealed about the health issues that had bothered her during the 21 weeks of her pregnancy so far.

Emily has said that heartburn and exhaustion had taken its toll and posting on Instagram, revealed that it was only watching One Day on Netflix that was taking her mind off her ailments. The TV personality wrote: "Week 21 of pregnancy. Getting me through this week of utter exhaustion and hideous heartburn are these two."

Image: emilyatack/Instagram) emilyatack/Instagram) Image: David Fisher/REX/Shutterstock) David Fisher/REX/Shutterstock)

Emily tagged Ambika Mod and Leo Woodall in the post, who are the stars of the trending romance drama. It was only at the end of last year that Emily revealed that she is expecting her first baby, due to arrive in April, in an announcement that she posted on Instagram.

She shared back in December: "Hello Everyone, it’s been a little while but I’m back with some news. I’m delighted to share with you all that we’re having a baby!! I’ve never been so happy and utterly terrified at the same time. Please go easy on me."

Emily added: "Every day is mixed with thrill, fear, joy, hysteria, topped off with a lot of vomiting - a bit like when you’ve just stepped off of the Oblivion at Alton Towers on a hangover. I’ve got to know my body on such an insane level. It’s made me appreciate the one I’ve been given SO much, I’m doing my absolute best to make it a home for the little squid I’m growing. We can already sense the baby is reclined on a mattress of peanut butter and jam sandwiches in there, demanding more chocolate buttons. I’m so happy to be writing all of this to you all."

Emily finished with an appeal, writing: "You’ve always stuck by me through the years, do stick around to watch me enter my mum era. Christ. Let’s go."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .