Danielle Lloyd's home in the West Midlands was reportedly targetted by brazen thieves who broke in just moments after she left the luxury property for a night out

Danielle Lloyd reportedly watched on in horror as her home was targetted by thieves.

The former model and reality star had been heading for a night out in October last year when she was alerted to an intruder at her home in Birmingham via a mobile phone app. Confused by the notification, Danielle opened the app and looked on in shock as a gang burst through her home in October of last year.

Reports claim the Celebrity SAS Star was heading for a night out with her partner, Michael O'Neill when items including a Cartier bracelet, a bank card and a Richard Mille watch were stolen. But luckily for Danielle, her home security software also alerted the police about the break-in.

Image: missdlloyd/Instagram) missdlloyd/Instagram) Image: instagram.com/jetsetwithmissdlloyd) instagram.com/jetsetwithmissdlloyd)

A source told The Sun on Sunday : "She has now been told the gang behind robberies at footballers' homes, including Grealish, could've also raided her house. She was so shaken up by the incident she's since sold up and moved to a new area. Danielle believes the gang had been watching their home because she doesn't often go out.

"Literally just minutes after they left, the gang pounced and broke in." The source went on to say that Danielle was "traumatised" by the ordeal after the thieves stole a string of high-value goods from her home. It's claimed that the individuals gained entry through the back door of Danielle and Michael's home and instantly started looking at their possessions.

Police officers attended the scene but the brazen gang escaped just moments before they and Michael arrived at the property. The source claimed that the group had been hiding at the bottom of her garden, leaving her concerned that she had been watched before heading for the night out.

Now, the model has moved home and has put in extra measures to ensure the safety of herself and her five children. Since the incident in October, Danielle has only shared a handful of snaps of her home with her Instagram followers, including a picture of her freshly cleaned sofa.

Meanwhile, another image showed a bedroom for one of her children, while the other saw three of her kids posing in front of a Christmas tree ahead of the festive period. A spokesperson for Danielle said: "The police are dealing with the robbery."

A spokesperson for West Midlands Police said: "We were called to reports of a burglary on October 28. Items of jewellery, designer bags and a bank card were stolen from the property."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .