Carmen Electra made a rare red carpet appearance at the People's Choice Awards on Sunday and the 51-year-old star wore a jaw-dropping dress that showed off her toned figure

Carmen Electra dazzled everyone at the People's Choice Awards with her stunning dress this weekend.

The sleeveless, backless, and multi-coloured ombre shimmering dress had a neckline that plunged down to her navel and the 51 year old's dirty blonde hair was neatly tied back into a low ponytail and parted in the middle.

The actress matched her dress with a light pink lip colour, filled-in eyebrows, and a blue and purple smokey eye. It's rare to see the star on the red carpet these days.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Taylor Swift to 'enjoy romantic holiday with Travis Kelce' on break from Australian tour

Image: Variety via Getty Images) Variety via Getty Images) Image: Variety via Getty Images) Variety via Getty Images)

The last time she attended the People's Choice Awards was in 2022, where she wore another breathtaking outfit. Then, she sported a dress with a long black skirt that touched the floor.

Her look was completed with a thin silver belt that connected to the silver bikini-like top of her dress. Unlike this year's low ponytail, in 2022 she styled her hair in a high ponytail. Away from the red carpet, Carmen recently applied to legally change her name. After using her stage name Carmen Electra for over 30 years, the Baywatch star wants it to be her legal name.

Born as Tara Leigh Patrick, she became famous under her stage name in the 90s while on Baywatch. She applied for the name change last December, but it has yet to be approved. Carmen has been married twice but never took her husbands' last names. She first tied the knot with basketball star Dennis Rodman in 1998, but they split up after a year.

Then she married rockstar Dave Navarro in 2003, but that ended in 2007. She was going to marry Rob Patterson from the band Otep in 2008, but they didn't and broke up.

Recently, Carmen started an OnlyFans account in 2022. She said it's a way for her to be in charge and share her ideas with fans without anyone telling her what to do: "I, for once, have this opportunity to be my own boss and have my own creative vision to share with my fans without someone standing over me."

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.