The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have successfully completed their three day tour of Vancouver for the countdown to the 2025 Invictus Games, but Harry has been left looking 'pensive' and 'overawed' on the trip

Harry looks 'pensive' while Meghan is 'beaming' as they head to final banquet in Canada

Prince Harry and wife Meghan Markle seemingly were not on the same page as they completed their final public appearance as part of their three day trip to Canada for the Invictus Games countdown.

Whilst the three day trip was jam packed with appearances, speeches and interviews, the final outing saw the couple attending the One Year To Go Dinner involving senior officials and Canadian figures. Their body language has hinted that the Duke in particular has been in deep thought over the public appearances. The three day stint in Vancouver has come straight after the couple were hit with controversy for their new website and just a week after Harry's father King Charles' cancer diagnosis was made public.

As the busy past few weeks appears to weigh heavy on Harry, his body language portrays him as "pensive" in contrast to Meghan's more "beaming" nature.

Join the Mirror's SMS news service to get the biggest breaking stories delivered straight to your phone. Click here to subscribe.

READ MORE: 'Doting' Meghan Markle clasps hands in 'pray position' as Harry takes on daring challenge

Image: Flightrisk / BACKGRID) Flightrisk / BACKGRID) Image: WireImage) WireImage)

Speaking exclusively to The Mirror, body language expert Judi James said: ""Harry and Meghan appear to have topped their Invictus promo off with a glamorous, celebrity-style appearance.

She added:Caught en route [to the banquet], it did look as though Harry was in a more pensive mood while Meghan threw a beaming, cheek-rounded smile beside him."

However, his mood changed with "Buble’s public endorsement and Meghan’s raised-brow glance of approval at him that seemed to say ‘you did it!’". Michael Buble dedicated a line to Harry in new rendition of My Way, calling him a "visionary".

During the song, there were "emphatic signals of pride and endorsement from Meghan to her husband while Harry looked thrilled and slightly overawed to hear Michael Bublé dedicate the line ‘I did it my way’ to him." After that moment, "Harry looked animated during his speech and much more upbeat trading comments with Bublé."

Whilst away in Canada, Prince Harry gave a bombshell interview to Good Morning America which appears to have infuriated Buckingham Palace and has even been blasted as "sickening" by royal insiders. During the appearance, the Duke opened up about his family life in Montecito, his father's cancer diagnosis, and the Invictus Games. In one interview answer he hinted at a possible reconciliation with his family in future as he explained, "I think any illness, any sickness brings families together."

However the comments were not well received, as a royal source speaking to The Daily Beast said: "It seems Harry has taken it on himself to use the diagnosis to publicise his own agenda. If it wasn’t so sickening it would be funny. What really would have helped the family come together would have been if Harry had said he wouldn’t be taking questions about his father."

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .