BBC Breakfast viewers were greeted with a different face during the latest instalment (February 19) of the show as Sally Nugent was missing from the red sofa

There has been a presenter switch-up on BBC Breakfast as the show's favourite, Sally Nugent, took time out from the programme.

The delightful anchor, who is 52, usually keeps us company alongside co-host Jon Kay from Monday until Wednesday. But viewers were met with a new face during the recent episode (February 19) of the popular morning show.

Jon, aged 54, was joined by Nina Warhurst, who rejoined BBC Breakfast just last month after a six month maternity leave following the birth of her third little champ. Upon return, Nina presented a special piece exploring the costs of baby milk.

During that episode, hosts Jon and Sarah Campbell happily welcomed back Nina, who excitedly expressed how much she had missed her pals at BBC Breakfast. She revealed: "Thank you very much it's lovely to be back. I have missed the gang."

Image: BBC) BBC)

"I'm missing the baby this morning very much but yeah it's lovely to be back. Best job in the world. And best baby in the world." The vibrant anchor carried on saying: "I know everyone thinks their baby is the best one but sorry guys, mine actually is yeah."

Back in July 2023, the 43 year old Nina welcomed a lovely girl named Nance to the world with her husband Ted Fraser. The couple also shares two adorable boys named Digby and Michael.

The news about broadcaster Nina's joyous events was kindly introduced by Jon and Sally on an episode of BBC Breakfast. Sally shared with their audience: "Some very exciting news now about our colleague Nina Warhurst, who we said goodbye to not very many days ago as she went off on maternity leave. She has welcomed a very healthy, beautiful baby girl." Jon shared adorable pictures of the newborn and said: "And there she is!"

He added: "Nina has told us the baby's name is a working progress, but the great news is they're all doing well after what Nina says was brilliant care from the team at St Mary's in Manchester. Isn't she gorgeous?"

Sally chimed in: "I believe this as well Nina said she's watching from home, morning, Nina! Along with the baby and two beautiful big brothers and she's very grateful for all the gorgeous messages she's had from people at home who are watching too."

"So she wants to pass on her thanks for everything all the kind words people have said." Jon continued: "And all our love to you and the family, Nina. That is fantastic, we're delighted for you."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok,Snapchat,Instagram,Twitter,Facebook,YouTubeandThreads.