Da'Vine Joy Randolph was the most relatable person at the BAFTA Film Awards tonight when she used her acceptance speech to flirt with a Hollywood actor

Da'Vine Joy Randolph had fans in fits of laughter with her acceptance speech at the BAFTAs tonight.

The Holdovers actress took home the Best Supporting Actress award tonight for her part in the hit movie, but fans loved seeing her very relatable reaction to collecting the top prize. Da'Vine had been up against the likes of Emily Blunt - Oppenheimer, Danielle Brooks - The Color Purple, Claire Foy - All of Us Strangers, Sandra Hüller - The Zone of Interest and Rosamund Pike - Saltburn for the Best Supporting Actress award but it was her comment in her acceptance speech that had fans praising her.

Complimenting Chiwetel Ejiofor, who gave her the award, she told him: "You are so handsome. I was hoping you were going to be here and woah. Worth it," earning a laugh from those packed into the Royal Festival Hall.

Image: Getty Images for BAFTA) Getty Images for BAFTA)

Da'Vine - who also won best supporting actress award at the Golden Globes - previously described awards season as "overwhelming" for her. Speaking about how she's handling the current awards season, she explained: "The schedule is overwhelming, but it’s an overwhelming joy as well. This is what actors dream of. So I dare not complain. I’m just taking it day by day. That’s all you can do."

She previously shared how she comes up with her acceptance speeches. She added: "I’m just trying to be true to myself," before explaining that she thinks about it when she's flying and then sits down to write it properly in hair and make up.

"It feels raw - doing it any other time just doesn’t hit the same way ... It’s a wild thing to be sitting there and then people are screaming and yelling and clapping and cheering - it’s one of the most beautiful sounds, but it can be intimidating, it can be overwhelming, and then you have to calm your nervous system and go up there and deliver this beautiful speech. It’s an intense feeling. You just try to steady yourself in the midst of it.” So far, she’s done a pretty good job of that," she said.

*Follow Mirror Celebs and TV on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.