Strictly Come Dancing judge Anton Du Beke shocked fans oft the BBC show by making a huge swipe at his former co-stars during the live tour at London's O2

Anton Du Beke took aim at his former Strictly Come Dancing co-stars.

After watching Angela Rippon, 79, dance during a performance at the London's O2 Arena for the Strictly tour, Anton praised the celebrity contestant while hitting out at his former partners. Following Angela's routine where she did the splits, Anton said: "Some of my partners can't make it down the stairs unaided never mind that..."

Anton was previously partnered with Ann Widdicombe, Ruth Langsford, Kate Garraway and Judy Murray amongst others. His final dance partner was Jacqui Smith, was voted out first - and Anton retired as a professional on the show that year.

Image: BBC) BBC)

Meanwhile, Anton recently unveiled the results of his hair transplant as he joked he went through with the procedure to be like EastEnders actor and Strictly star Bobby Brazier. During an appearance on Loose Women, he said: "It's all mine, I just had it shifted about.

"They take it off the back and have it replanted at the front, he's (the doctor) an absolute genius. I want to be like Bobby, wafting in the air being gorgeous and youthful."

The Strictly judge explained: "I’m sharing my experience with people who are thinking about it and just reassuring them really, and saying 'Listen, do it. It's amazing.' And I have to tell you, it will be the best thing you've ever done."

He added: "I think it's important to talk about it. I wanted to let people know where I did it because I think they're the best. And also, already I’ve met so many people that have come to me and said they’ve been giving it some thought, and it’s just that thing where you go 'Listen, I did it and it was amazing.' 'Is it okay?' 'Yeah, I was on stage after eight days.' 'Were you?' 'Yeah!'"

He added: "I had a little bit of crop rotation. So we moved it from the back then shoved it around the front. What they do is they go from the back and then they move it and then graft it in front. It's an extraordinary process, but they're brilliant."

Anton went on to open up on the Strictly tour as he shared a "brilliant" moment with the most recent winner Ellie Leach where her hair piece fell off during a routine. He said: "We had a nasty incident, and I hope they don't mind me saying, last night where one of the girls' hair pieces came off on the floor.

"Absolutely brilliant, it brought the house down, best night we have had on tour. Her partner stood on it, nightmare, but it was amazing."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok,Snapchat,Instagram,Twitter,Facebook,YouTubeandThreads.