Zoe Ball has admitted she can't stop thinking about the late DJ, Steve Wright, who died on February 13, aged 69.

The revered Radio 2 star, left his colleagues heartbroken when news of his death was announced via a statement from his family. Zoe, 53, who presents the Radio 2 Breakfast Show, was one of the first to pay tribute to the father-of-her two and has now taken Instagram, revealing Steve is still on her mind.

Sharing a snap of the new Radio 2 studio, which overlooks London's skyline, she wrote: "new studio, what a view @bbcradio2 #morning. Can't stop thinking about Wrighty," followed by a broken heart emoji."

Image: Dave Benett/Getty Images) Dave Benett/Getty Images) Image: Instagram) Instagram)

Radio 2 listeners broke down in tears as Steve's Sunday Love Songs returned to air at the weekend, days after the presenter's sudden death. The iconic DJ's friend, Liza Tarbuck, took over hosting the episode in which she encouraged fans to get in touch with memories of the veteran broadcaster.

Fans became emotional listening to the tribute, with one writing on X: "I’m not a big radio listener, but my parents are and Sunday love songs was a regular feature in the house/car when I was growing so listening to the tribute show is emosh. " Another shared: "Listening to the tributes pour in for Steve Wright and I’m gone."

While no cause of Steve's death has been announced, police have said the tragedy was "not being treated as suspicious". According to Mark Wells, the former controller of ITV Entertainment, the much-loved broadcaster had undergone secret surgery before his passing and was "more ill than he let on".

Speaking about his late friend on Colin Edmonds' podcast Behind The Scenes, Mr Wells said: "Steve had a heart operation about 15months ago. He had a bypass operation that had gone well…and I think he was more ill than he was letting on. The recovery had gone pretty well but the events of the last couple of days was probably what in the end came for him."

Earlier this week, Steve's son Tom revealed he had flown from his home in Los Angeles to London to 'care' for his dad in his final weeks. Tom said he was grateful he had got to know his dad in way he 'never had before' as they spent time together before he died.

Following the news of the DJ's death, Zoe told her fans: "Wrighty. Our Radio friend, our inspiration, master of broadcasting, the Godfather, a dear friend, always there for us all with support, advice & love & most importantly laughter. Rest well you wonderful magic man. Life won't be the same without you here. Love you my friend my hero x." She added: "Thoughts to Steve's family, his beloved listeners, Tim, Jayney, Bobbi & his team."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook,YouTubeand Threads.