Sir Ian McKellen has split from his boyfriend after a year-long romance.

The Lord Of The Rings legend, 84, fell head over heels for Oscar Conlon-Morrey, 30, when the worked together in a pantomime in December 2022. The pantomime saw Ian play Mother Goose, while Oscar, - who is 54 years younger - played his son Jack in the stage performance.

The pair are believed to have quickly fallen head over heels for one another after working together, and Oscar was quick to tell the world of his joyous new relationship on New Year's Eve in 2023 when he gushed over his romance with the acting legend. "I saw in 2023 at the house of the new love of my life," he wrote on X, formerly known as Twitter.

Image: oscar_c_m_/Instagram) oscar_c_m_/Instagram)

According to insiders at the time of their relationship announcement, Ian was also smitten with the young actor. However, their relationship is believed to have now ended with the pair calling it quits on their whirlwind romance.

According to the MailOnline, Ian's close friends have always doubted that the legendary actor would ever settle down. At the beginning of Ian and Oscar's romance, one well-known actor opened up about the doubts he harboured about Ian's relationship.

"Oscar has been telling friends and family of his big plans with McKellen. He's even said he thinks they'll get engaged," the unnamed actor said at the time. "McKellen hasn't had a boyfriend in 20 years. He is really not a marriage man.

"He doesn't want a man living in his home. He enjoys having someone when he is on tour. He gets infatuated; then as quickly as he is into them, he's fallen out with them. There is no way when he is out of the bubble of doing this panto that he is going to have this guy with him in East London, rattling around," he added.

Image: PA) PA) Image: oscar_c_m_/Instagram) oscar_c_m_/Instagram)

It comes after Ian previously revealed that his life changed for the better when he came out as being gay. The actor has been open to the public about his sexuality since 1988 but unfortunately his parents had passed away before he had the chance to tell them.

The veteran actor revealed on The Jonathan Ross Show that his mother Margery died when he was only 12 years old. He also said told the host his father sadly passed away when he was 22. The X-Men star didn't come out until he was in his 40s, but insisted "it's a different world now".

He said that as a youngster he risked prosecution if he was openly gay, so he had to hide who he was from everyone, including his parents before they died. But he has praised the laws that are now in place in the UK and says he never stops talking about being gay, joking to the host that he is "making up for lost time".

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .