Poundland's plan is called "Project Evo" and will see stores across the country receive fresh new signage, flooring and lighting as well as more fridges and freezers in stores

Poundland will be giving 150 of its stores across the UK and Ireland a major makeover between now and the end of August.

The planned revamps come as parent company Pepco has made a major investment into Poundland's clothing, homewares, and chilled and frozen food sections. The plan is called "Project Evo" and will see stores across the country receive fresh new signage, flooring and lighting as well as more fridges and freezers in stores.

All the stores will also offer more baby and kids clothing for parents on a budget while staff areas will be made over to make them better places to work, according to Poundland. By the end of the project, Poundland says they will have “the most comprehensive ranges that can be accommodated in the location, including chilled and frozen food and the very latest clothing and homewares ranges”.

Some of the renovations have already begun and will be completed before the end of the month - with some as early as this Saturday (February 17). This includes Poundland stores in Urmston, Kaynsham, Darlington and Plymouth. A further 31 makeovers will take place on subsequent Saturdays to bring the total to 42 by Easter, according to Poundland. Pepco says it will also be renovating its Dealz stores which are based in Ireland.

Alongside this, 11 former Wilko stores in England and Wales will be finished and open by August 2024. These include stores in Leigh, Ammanford, Peterlee, Leicester, Chepstow, Worcester, Bicester, Greenock, Thornaby, Stevenage, and Hull.

Alan Smallman, Poundland’s director of property services, said: "Over the past five years we’ve transformed our offer for customers, adding extensive ranges of clothing, homewares, chilled and frozen food. We’re now embarking on a programme that will show off those ranges in a modern and bright environment that’s easy to shop, navigate and checkout. We look forward to bringing our best offer to these 150 stores over the coming months."

List of Poundland stores to be renovated by Easter

February

Urmston - completed on February 17

Keynsham -completed on February 17

Darlington -completed on February 17

Plymouth - completed on February 17

Keighley - completed on February 24

Leeds Crown Point - completed on February 24

Coventry - completed on February 24

Chatham - completed on February 24

March