Beyoncé fans have been left furious by Dukes of Hazzard star John Schneider and branded him a racist after he compared the iconic pop singer to a dog urinating

Dukes of Hazzard star John Schneider has been slammed as 'racist and hateful' for comparing Beyoncé to a urinating dog.

The actor stunned listeners when he made the shocking statement during an interview with conservative network One American News. During a segment about whether Oklahoma Radio Station should play the Crazy in Love singer's latest collection of country music from her Renaissance body of work, he let rip about just how he felt.

The host asked Schneider: "The lefties in the entertainment industry just won't leave any area alone, right? They just have to seize control over every aspect, don't they?"

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Destiny's Child reunite as Beyonce praises 'best friend' Kelly Rowland - and fans have one request

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

Schneider left fans open-mouthed with his response. He said: "They've got to make their mark, just like a dog in a dog walk park. You know, every dog has to mark every tree, right? So that's what's going on here."

"WOW, disgusting actor John Schneider on disgustin," one user wrote on X. "@OANN references @Beyonce wanting to have her music played as a DOG making their mark on everything. He wasn't saying that when he was cashing those @tylerperry checks & in the faces of his [Black] colleagues! Racists don't stop"

Another penned: "1) Black people created country music 2) Beyoncé is a Texan, and therefore is connected to country culture 3) “Texas Hold ‘Em” isn’t even the first time Beyoncé has released a country song. she put out “Daddy Lessons” back in 2016 John Schneider is just a racist POS."

The "Halo" singer, 42, has broken the internet since announcing she is releasing her first country album. The singer's new look comes after she announced her next album at the Super Bowl, which will be a part two to Renaissance.

Her new album, only described as Act II of Renaissance, will hit the internet on March 29. When Renaissance was dropped in 2022, it was promoted as "Act I" but no further information was given at the time.

During the Super Bowl, Beyonce announced the new album in an advert and delighted fans by also releasing two brand new singles. The two songs, Texas Hold 'Em and 16 Carriages, are both country-inspired songs.

Beyonce's decision to embrace country music is an homage to her hometown of Houston, Texas. This is not the first time the pop icon has leaned into country music, with her 2016 song Daddy Lessons also embracing the genre.

Texas Hold 'Em and 16 Carriages shot to the top of the Apple Music US Country charts, making Beyonce the first black female artist to reach the top of that chart. She is also the first black female artist to have the first and second positions on that chart simultaneously.