The original Sugababes line-up united to collect the band's Impact Award at the MOBOs. Mutya Buena has since hit back after Heidi Range's mum took issue over her daughter's 'snub'

Sugababes star Mutya Buena has furiously hit back at her former bandmate after her mum accused the band of trying to "rewrite history" after their Mobo Awards win.

The heated exchange on social media has reignited a long-running feud between the various incarnations of the band. It kicked off when the Sugababes scooped the Impact Mobo Awards earlier this month, with founding members Mutya Buena, 38, Keisha Buchanan and Siobhan Donaghy, both 39, collecting the honours. Heidi Range, 40, had previously replaced Siobhan until the group split in 2011.

Heidi's mum Karen took issue with the Sugababes latest awards win, commenting underneath her daughter's Instagram post, which showed her posing in front of a wall of Sugababes plaques and records.

Image: AFP/Getty Images) AFP/Getty Images)

Going all in, Karen wrote: "Yes Heidi all the songs you wrote and made hits you can’t rewrite history or the facts no matter how much you pretend. So very proud of you, mum."

Responding to another fan who agreed with her, the fuming mum added: "I just can’t believe the cheek of it. Sugababes didn’t have a hit till Heidi joined six number one singles and multi platinum albums it is so false and disrespectful the way they are carrying on, shame on them!" She added separately: "The truth will out."

Mutya has now responded to the claims, taking to her Instagram Story to dispute Karen's comments. Issuing a reply, she wrote: "I wasn't gonna say nothing but f*** it, I will… now firstly I'm not here to hurt feelings but hold tight.

"When I wasn't in the group and the girls was doing big things WITHOUT ME, do you think I was getting upset about not being mentioned?

"Sooooo let's just be nice and get over it, we all deserve our flowers but it was me Shiv, and Keisha on the stage accepting our award at MOBOS and YES WE DESERVED IT. I'm over people putting me and my ladies down."

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

Mutya, alongside Keisha and Siobhan, were the original Sugababes line up, releasing one album together in 2000, One Touch. Siobhan was replaced by Heidi in 2001, and that iteration of the band released three albums together between 2002 and 2005, with the hits Round Round, Push the Button and Hole in the Head. She was in the band intil 2011. Mutya left the band in 2005, rejoining after Heidi had left in 2012, reforming the original line-up.

Mutya and Keisha have previously addressed claims of a feud between the two, disputing there is any hostility there and denying there is "badblood" between the former bandmates.

Speaking to The Sun in 2022, Keisha said: "I think collectively we would all agree that Heidi had her part of it and is a massive part of Sugababes. For her to have done that journey with us, she is just as important to the journey of Sugababes."

Mutya said: "We've seen Heidi and there's no bad blood or anything like that."

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .