Good Morning Britain's Kate Garraway has taken to social media for the first time since the death of Derek Draper to congratulate Ben Shepherd for his new role as This Morning host

Since the tragic death of her beloved husband Derek Draper, Kate Garraway has understandably taken a step back from social media.

But for the first time in recent weeks, the Good Morning Britain host, 56, could not resist congratulating her former co-host Ben Shepherd on landing the role as co-host on This Morning. Ben, alongside Cat Deeley were confirmed as Holly Willoughby and Phillip Schofield's replacements on the ITV show earlier today (February 16). Taking to Instagram, the mum of two wrote: "Massive congrats to @benshephardofficial on the @itv @thismorning gig. You’ll be SOOOOO missed by EVERYONE @gmb viewers and the team alike & of course especially me. "

Image: Dave Benett/Getty Images for Hearst) Dave Benett/Getty Images for Hearst) Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

She added: "BUT after 24 years hard labour by my side no one will begrudge you time off for good behaviour!!! Good luck swapping early starts for (a bit) of a lie in and a Kate for a Cat! @catdeeley can’t wait to see you - you’ll have a ball." Earlier this month, Kate made a brave return to the morning news show and is reportedly looking forward to moving on with her life, after Derek lost his four year battle with Covid.

In December, the late political lobbyist suffered a heart attack and sadly passed away the following month. Shortly after Derek's funeral, Kate returned to the ITV show where she was greeted by a supportive welcome by her colleagues. The funeral took place at the Church of St Mary the Virgin in Primrose Hill, which was the same church they had tied the knot, nearly 20 years ago.

A few days after the burial, which saw her daughter Darcey carry her late father's coffin, Kate spoke to Richard Madeley and Susanna Reid via video call. Despite concerns that she was returning too soon, Kate told Richard and Susanna "Derek would want me to do this."

And on her return Kate said it was "lovely" to be back, despite feeling "a bit wobbly." A source told Ok! Magazine: "People are worried about her doing too much but Kate is strong and she knows what she's doing. She's been living with this for a long time. Work is where she wants and needs to be."

Kate had been Derek's full-time carer but grief specialist Carole Henderson told the Mirror Kate could experience a lack of purpose in her work, which is common among those suffering loss. Carole said: "It may be much harder than she's anticipated, while everyone can imagine how the first few days back will be strange, what is often not considered is that surprisingly quickly people forget how new and fragile you are and start treating you as the person you used to be."

She added: "While returning to a supportive environment can be positive, it can simultaneously be a drain. Grief can sap your energy and leave you exhausted. A large part of your system is processing the pain leaving fewer resources to cope with the everyday stresses. What seems crucial to your colleagues can seem pointless or banal compared to what's going on in your head. Some people do much better going back to work, the routine providing structure and purpose. Some really struggle and employers and colleagues need to realise that the person grieving might not know which one they are until they try."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok,Snapchat,Instagram,Twitter,Facebook,YouTubeandThreads