Unhappy Tory MPs have hit out at Rishi Sunak and said the Government's performance 'is plainly not enough' after the Conservatives lost Wellingborough and Kingswood by-elections

Disgruntled Tories have demanded their party changes course after two humiliating by-election defeats last night.

Rishi Sunak was told to give up his role as leader of the Party with unease growing among Conservative MPs as a general election approaches. The PM suffered by-election defeats in Wellingborough and Kingswood on Friday after Labour overturned massive Tory majorities.

The PM said the circumstances of the by-elections were "particularly challenging" and insisted he would "stick with our plan because it is starting to deliver the change the country wants and needs”. But unhappy Tory MPs hit back at Mr Sunak and said the Government's performance "is plainly not enough".

In a statement, Conservative MPs Danny Kruger and Miriam Cates, the co-chairs of right-wing faction the New Conservatives, said: "In 2019 the British people voted for change, and they haven’t seen it yet. We have many good excuses - the disruptions and distractions of Brexit, Covid and the Ukraine war - but so far, we have not delivered on the promises we made at the last election.

"There is still time - but our Party must change course. We are calling on the Government to adapt to the reality that the by-elections reveal. Our target voters want a different and a better offer."

Image: POOL/AFP via Getty Images) POOL/AFP via Getty Images)

They want Mr Sunak to reinvest the welfare savings in the prison estate and national defence, as well as make tax cuts. They also called on the Government to "declare its willingness" to withdraw from the European Convention on Human Rights and repeal the Human Rights Act if courts in Strasbourg or Britain try to stop the removal of illegal migrants.

Tory MP Dame Andrea Jenkyns, who is a Boris Johnson ally, called for a new leader to take over Mr Sunak at the helm of the Conservative Party. “However difficult for fellow MPs we have no choice, we have to change leader," she wrote in a post on Twitter/X.

"We don’t want to be here but sticking heads in the sand will make matters worse. Last chance saloon to change course with a new leader, be tough on immigration & save our great country from the socialists.” Dame Andrea submitted a letter of no confidence in the PM in November after a row over a reshuffle angered the Tory right.

Following the by-election defeats, Mr Sunak said: “Midterm elections are always difficult for incumbent governments and the circumstances of these elections were of course particularly challenging. If you look at the results, very low turnout, and it shows that we've got work to do to show people that we are delivering on their priorities.

"That's what I'm absolutely determined to do but also it shows that there isn't a huge amount of enthusiasm for the alternative in Keir Starmer and the Labour Party and that's because they don't have a plan and if you don't have a plan, you can't deliver real change, and when the general election comes, that’s the message I’ll be making: Stick with our plan because it is starting to deliver the change the country wants and needs.”

In Wellingborough, Northamptonshire, Labour demolished an 18,000 Tory majority, while in Kingswood, South Gloucestershire, the 11,000 Tory lead crumbled. After suffering its ninth and tenth by-election defeats this Parliament, the Conservative Government has now endured more by-election losses than any administration since the 1960s, surpassing the eight defeats suffered by John Major in the run-up to Tony Blair's 1997 landslide victory.

Elections guru John Curtice said the results confirmed that the Conservatives are in “very, very considerable electoral trouble.” “The Conservatives are going to have to defeat the historical record to come back from where they are,” he told the BBC.

Despite the emphatic victories Keir Starmer refused to get carried away, saying only that Labour are now "credible contenders" to become the next Government. He added: “There’s more work to be done, as every football fan knows, you don’t win the league with a good win in February.”