One year after the death of iconic fashion designer Dame Vivienne Westwood her granddaughter Cora Corre has paid an emotional tribute on social media to mark the tragic anniversary

The world was left in mourning after news emerged that Vivienne Westwood had sadly passed away in December 2022, aged 81.

And now, to mark the anniversary of her death, her granddaughter, Cora Corre, took to social media to post an emotional and heartfelt tribute. The designer made waves in society during her reign as one of the UK's leading fashion designers over several decades. Surrounded by family, Vivienne passed away in Clapham, south London. Cora posted a message that read: "As the one-year anniversary of my grandmother's memorial looms tomorrow. I miss her more than ever. It is timely with London Fashion Week. "

She added: "However, the deafening silence throughout the fashion industry with one of the largest platforms and reach in the world through current conflicts has rung clear. Vivienne used her platform to continuously challenge the injustice in the world. So when writing my speech last year I asked myself what would she have done if she had a 3,000-person audience in Southwark Cathedral. So I wanted to share what I feel is now more relevant than ever."

Cora continued: "We all sit here today, place of privilege, that privilege is power, that power is a voice. Vivienne used her voice to lead a relentless fight for justice, continuously highlighting the corruption in the world and trying her best to make the world a better place."

She went on to say: "Privilege should not be taken lightly. It should be utilized to shed light on issues crucial to our collective moral compass, to show compassion to fellow human beings rather than the detachment created through the luxury of your own safety and warmth in your home, often taken for granted whilst many go to sleep fearing for their very existence."

Reaching out to the masses, Cora continued: "We must remember that what underpins all of this, is the belief that we are separate, and that we bear no responsibility to one another and the idea that we are disconnected from people if they are far away from us. Our principles must remain consistent, or they are not principles at all."

And in a bid to honour her grandmother's legacy, Cora added: "So, to honour Vivienne, share your stage, shed light on the issues and speak up for the people that don’t have a voice…and let Vivienne’s fight continue through you. We need more people like Vivienne in the world. In her own words…. 'This is a war for the very existence of the human race. And that of the planet. The Most important weapon we have is public opinion. Become a freedom fighter."

And speaking directly to her beloved grandmother, Cora concluded her tribute saying: " Grandma, into the cosmos I call your name. You always said I was your angel but you are mine. Vivienne we love you. A special thank you to Johnnie Shand Kydd a dear friend who generously allowed the usage of his image that sits in the National Portrait Gallery Collection."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok,Snapchat,Instagram,Twitter,Facebook,YouTubeandThreads