A brave mum who lives in Glasgow has completed a solo row across the Atlantic Ocean, covering 3,000 miles in 66 days.

Leanne Maiden, 42, became the first South African woman to complete "the world's toughest row" a journey from La Gomera to Antigua. The mum-of-two, who is originally from Johannesburg and works as an osteopath, spent over two months at sea, beating an estimated time of 85 days.

She battled 20ft waves and temperatures as low as 10C, faced humidity with highs above 30C towards the end, and arrived on Saturday. After her sailing partner pulled out months before the start date of December 13, Leanne decided to row the 3,000 miles by herself, starting from the Canary Islands, in a bid to raise money for charity.

The Bearsden woman rowed as many as 70 nautical miles in 24-hour periods, for up to 14 hours per day, with no toilet on board just a bucket. She said lockdown inspired her to make changes in her life. She raised more than £20,000 for charity and said she was "sad" it was over but also "relieved".

The 42-year-old said: "This experience has changed my life. I hope I've shown other mums that anything is possible. When you become a mum you can lose part of your identity. This has helped me rediscover who I am and what I'm capable of. I am so glad to be back with my husband and kids while I've missed them terribly, I think I'll be a better mother and partner having been through this incredible experience. This isn't a rowing challenge, it's a challenge of the human spirit. It strips you down and leaves you exposed and it's there where you find your toughness."

Image: PA) PA)

"I've proved to myself how resilient I can be. I'm so glad I bit the bullet and just went for it there were so many reasons not to. That mindset stops you from taking big leaps that can change your life. Thinking of the three incredible charities I was rowing for kept me going during the toughest times. The first week was incredibly difficult but after that, I got into the groove and began to enjoy the solitude and the personal growth that came with this crazy journey."

"The feeling of arriving in Antigua was just incredible a real mix of elation, relief, and sadness that it's all over. I've had to overcome so many obstacles, some seemed so catastrophic that I laugh. I'm relieved that I've made it and especially relieved I made it before I ran out of toilet paper. Now I've been able to hug my family, I can't wait to have a shower. I'm a mum. I did this for my children, to inspire them to step out of their comfort zone, and if I can inspire anyone to step out of their comfort zone it's worth 66 days at sea."

In Antigua, she was overjoyed to see her two boys, Blair, seven, and Ruaridh, eight, and her husband Craig. Leanne has collected more than £20,000 for The Polar Academy UK, The Women's Fund for Scotland, and The Mabel Foundation.

Her sponsor and neighbour Jamie Lunn, director of Wolfcraig Distillers, commented: "When she first came to us with this crazy idea we always knew she would do it. She's a very special woman and we are so inspired by her strength and determination."

Scottish singer Amy Macdonald took to Instagram to celebrate Leanne's achievement. She said: "Leanne has been out on the Atlantic Ocean rowing since December 13 totally on her own; no flipping internet, no tv, no nothing...at the times the waves have been like stuff you see in the movies. She capsized. She got hit 180. And she was all on her own. My mind is blown by this and she's about to touch land. It's unbelievable. Crazy."