Louise Redknapp is said to be completely smitten with her new boyfriend Drew Michael and is not ruling out tying the knot with him - despite her heartbreak over first husband Jamie

Louise Redknapp is not ruling out tying the knot for a second time as her relationship with businessman Drew Michael continues to go from strength to strength.

The 49-year-old former Eternal singer's romance with boyfriend Drew, 40, continues to heat up, even with the backdrop of snowy climes with the loved-up pair enjoying a romantic ski trip together. Louise has shared photos of her time away with Drew, on Instagram, after shaking off her rule about keeping any romances after husband Jamie Redknapp under wraps.

As the pair look cosy by a fire before heading to the slopes, Louise posted photos of them both on Instagram and captioned it with: "All the gear and no idea." While Louise had previously ruled out getting married again, a source close to the singer has said that she is now more open to the idea and is not ruling out a wedding with Drew.

Image: @louiseredknapp/instagram) @louiseredknapp/instagram) Image: @louiseredknapp/instagram) @louiseredknapp/instagram)

Louise split from her ex-husband, former footballer Jamie Redknapp, in 2017 after nearly 20 years of marriage and he has since married again, to model Frida Andersson in 2021, and has a two-year-old son, Raphael with her. Jamie and Louise also share sons Charley, 19, and Beau, 15. A source has told Closer that Louise is ready to take the next step with Drew.

The source said: "Louise is madly in love and is already talking to pals about settling down again – admitting that while she initially swore-off getting married again, Drew has turned that all on its head.” Louise has previously spoken to The Mirror about the difficulties she has faced in building a relationship with Drew while in the public eye. She said: "It’s so difficult with your personal life... it’s all good. Yeah, I’ve got nothing else to say on it, everything about it has already been written."

Louise and Drew have grown closer after the singer fell out with her former bandmates Easther and Vernie Bennett after they pulled out of a reunion at Mighty Hoopla due to its support of the trans community. A source told OK!: "Louise is really relying on Drew at the moment and she’s very thankful she’s got him by her side. It took a while to find him but she’s finally happy and comfortable to be seen with him, and she really needs his support at the moment."

The source added: "Louise has received a lot of backlash from this. Her relationship with Vernie and Easther won’t be the same again. She’s relying on new guy Drew, and he really stepped up to the mark for her, which is a good sign."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .