Prince William and Kate Middleton attended the BAFTAs last year for the first time since their very awkward appearance at the 2019 ceremony - things will be very different at this year's ceremony

Prince William will attend the 2024 BAFTA Awards solo this evening, as his wife Kate Middleton continues to recover from recent abdominal surgery.

His attendance at the event will be his first official public appearance since his wife’s operation last month. William, who is president of the British Academy of Film and Television Arts, was originally scheduled to skip the star-studded ceremony due to Kate’s health issues but has seemingly had a last-minute change of heart.

William will certainly be hoping for a less awkward arrival at the Southbank Centre's Royal Festival Hall tonight compared to when he and Kate entered a wall of silence in 2019. Kate and William, who has been the president of BAFTA since 2010, attended the glitzy awards ceremony for the first time in three years in 2023 - where they walked the red carpet together before meeting all the winners on stage at the end of the ceremony.

Image: David Fisher/REX/Shutterstock) David Fisher/REX/Shutterstock) Image: PA Archive/PA Images) PA Archive/PA Images)

Prior to their appearance at the 76th British Academy Film Awards, the royal couple last attended the event in person in 2020 with William, the BAFTA president, recording a video message the following year in his place in which he congratulated those nominated for awards.

Their big return to the red carpet last year was much less awkward than their arrival at the Royal Festival Hall in London's Southbank Centre in 2019. Mum-of-three Kate was dressed in a flowing Alexander McQueen gown and as they entered the auditorium, they walked into near silence with the audience all on their feet.

It appeared to be a long, awkward walk for the couple, who were led to the first row to take their seats. It led Kate to be heard saying: "It's so quiet" - before William issued her a quick instruction and added: "Let's sit down quickly." Thankfully the awkwardness lasted only a short time as it wasn't long until host Joanna Lumley took the stage and kicked off the show.

This year's 77th British Academy Film Awards ceremony will see Sophie Ellis-Bextor perform for the star-studded audience thanks to one of the singer's hit tunes getting a second lease of life after featuring in the British movie Saltburn, starring Irish actor Barry Keoghan.

Fans of Saltburn will remember the memorable scene where Barry's character, Oliver, dances naked to Sophie's track Murder on the Dancefloor around a huge stately manor. Sophie's song, released 23 years ago, was chosen for the final scene of Emerald Fennell's film and has been trending on social media since the film landed on Amazon Prime Video over the festive season. Its success has even landed Sophie a new deal with her old record label.

Murder on the Dancefloor was nominated for best British song in 2001. Sophie was shortlisted for the British female solo artist award in 2002 and again in 2004. Believe it or not, she has never performed at the ceremony, but that is all set to change this year as Sophie is due to take to the stage at The 02 Arena in London at the music ceremony next month and belt out her classic pop anthem.