Taylor Swift and her boyfriend Travis Kelce are 'happy' and feel 'excited for what lies ahead', it has been claimed by a psychic who did an exclusive reading on the power couple

Taylor Swift and her boyfriend Travis Kelce are "adjusting to a new reality" after his triumphant Super Bowl win, with it claimed that the lovebirds "feel happy and excited for what lies ahead".

The 34-year-old hitmaker was in attendance at the sporting event last weekend at the Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas to support her boyfriend Travis Kelce, also 34. Taylor cheered on Travis and the Kansas City Chiefs when they won 25-22 against the San Francisco 49ers at the event last Sunday, and now the couple are said to be excited for the future.

Taylor and Travis met last summer after the tight end attended the singer's sold-out Eras Tour in Kansas City. He expressed an interest in her after attending the gig, and then Taylor is said to have reached out. They started dating soon after and then went public with their romance in September.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Taylor Swift 'got Kanye West kicked out of Super Bowl' after he tried to upstage her

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

Speaking exclusively to The Mirror, Inbaal Honigman said: "Adjusting to a new reality after the Super Bowl has the lovebirds feel happy and excited for what lies ahead."

Carrying out an exclusive Tarot reading for the pair, Inbaal first pulled the 9 of Cups card for Travis, which is a card of fulfilment and satisfaction. "He's delighted that he played well, and that he's got his girl by his side. Travis is happy and confident, says the card, and just wants another year, exactly like this one," Inbaal revealed.

Meanwhile, for Taylor she pulled the 7 of Wands card, which is an enthusiastic and powerful Tarot card. "It says that Taylor, still smashing records on her enormous tour, is excited for the future."

And for the couple as a whole, Inbaal pulled the Tower card, which is a Tarot card of unexpected changes and moves. "Travis may join Taylor on the next leg of her tour, and there could be other teams hoping to entice the superstar athlete."

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .