Country singer Jessie James Decker, 35, announced her happy news to fans on social media as she and husband Eric welcomed their fourth child to the world

Jessie James Decker gives birth to baby No. 4 with husband Eric Decker

Jessie James Decker has welcomed her fourth child with husband Eric Decker.

The delighted country singer, 35, announced the news to fans in a sweet post on Instagram. Jessie looked radiant as she cradled her newborn son in a shot from her hospital bed after giving birth.

She captioned the shot: "Our beautiful boy is here. Denver Calloway Decker." The adorable tot looked sweet nestled on his mother's chest. His doting dad, wearing a beanie hat, could not take his eyes off little Denver, as he held onto Jessie's hands.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Jessie James Decker shows off short hair transformation as she gets emotional on runway

Image: Jessie James Decker) Jessie James Decker) Image: FilmMagic) FilmMagic)

Fans flocked to her page to comment and share her baby joy. One said: "So handsome," while another said: "He is so precious. Welcome to the world baby boy."

Jessie and Eric have three older children. They are proud parents to Vivianne, 10, and sons Eric Jr., 9, and Forrest,6. She has been keeping fans up-to-date with her motherhood journey with sweet posts featuring her family.

Jessie's fans got to see the star show off her dance moves on Dancing With The Stars in 2020. When she left the hit-reality TV competition show she had nothing but praise for it.

Jessie wrote on Instagram: "If you would have told me September 2nd when I was asked to do this show that I would have made it this far I would have said… uhhh no way!

She said: "This has tested me and challenged me in a diff way than anything in my career and I am SO proud that I stepped out of my comfort zone and did something that scared the s**t out of me!

"But more than anything…. I met @alanbersten who I will miss most of all. He is my family now and we all love him with all our hearts."

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.