Kanye West and his wife of just over one year, Bianca Censori, 'are a solid Hollywood couple' according to a celebrity psychic, which comes after claims of a one-sided marriage

Kanye West and Bianca Censori "are a solid Hollywood couple" after it appeared that the duo had a one-sided marriage.

The 46-year-old rapper married the 29-year-old Australian model and architect in December 2022. The couple have since made headlines constantly with their NSFW public displays and Bianca's very daring outfits.

Although the couple has always appeared to look very smitten and in love while in each other's company, there has been speculation that the couple's relationship is "one-sided" and "controlling". There were even claims last autumn that the pair were "on a break".

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Kim Kardashian tells ex Kanye West to make wife Bianca 'cover up' around their kids

Image: GC Images) GC Images)

But Kanye and Bianca stood their ground and have remained defiant in the face of negative speculation, with a celebrity psychic now revealing that the pair have "hit a very positive patch". Speaking exclusively to The Mirror, Inbaal Honigman has declared: Kanye and Bianca's marriage has just hit a very positive patch in the road, following the racy displays this week."

Carrying out a Tarot reading, Inbaal pulled the 10 of Disks card for rapper Ye, which is a card of wealth. "He's making great money, he gets to keep all of it, and he feels like he's finally leaving the past in the past. Thoughts of yesteryear, when he saw cancelled contracts and fans turning away, are long gone. The musician is feeling secure with what he has," she revealed.

Meanwhile, for Bianca Inbaal pulled the 10 of Cups Tarot card, which is a card of emotional fulfillment. "This card says that Biana is receiving a lot of attention right now, which she's very happy with," she added.

Then Inbaal pulled a card to represent their relationship together, which happened to be the Devil Tarot card which is one of transformations and transitions. Revealing the couple's positive patch, Inbaal said: "This relationship used to be more one-sided, but now they have got to know each other and are a solid Hollywood couple."

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .