Donald Trump made a surprise appearance at Sneaker Con in Philadelphia to sell his first pair of official Trump-branded shoes, but a body language expert says he looked 'not quite on brand' with the gold sneakers

Donald Trump seemed out of place and uninterested in connecting with young voters as he made a bizarre public appearance to sell Trump-branded trainers, an expert says.

Body language analyst Judi James told the Mirror that the former president didn't seem to fit in and showed "no desire" to engage with younger voters at the Sneaker Con event, known as 'The Greatest Sneaker Show on Earth'.

Trump, the frontrunner Republican presidential candidate, arrived at the convention with the first Trump-branded gold sneakers just hours after losing a court case worth $355million. The shiny golden high-tops, which feature an American flag detail at the back, are being sold as 'Never Surrender High-Tops' for a hefty $399.

READ MORE: Donald Trump LOSES civil fraud trial - ordered to pay £281M and barred from running businesses in NYC

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

The crowd at the Philadelphia Convention Center had mixed reactions, with both boos and cheers. Judi wasn't surprised by this, saying it made sense given Trump's apparent lack of interest in connecting with the younger audience.

Judi told the Mirror: "He probably won't be getting hired by any of the shopping channels to sell their goods right now because, despite his legendary prowess as the pitching king on The Apprentice, Trump still managed to look not quite on-brand when it came to this new range of golden sneakers.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

"His eye expression and his downturned lips as he held them and studied them suggested curiosity rather than a salesman's admiration for his product. He even left them on the lectern as he walked off stage but that was because by then he'd revealed his real reason for the appearance, which came when he pointed an index finger into the audience while reminding them to vote."

When Trump appeared on the stage at the sneaker event, the crowd roared with a blend of boos and cheers of "USA!" from his supporters, many of whom proudly wore Trump merchandise. Their signs read: "SNEAKERHEADS LOVE TRUMP."

"There's a lot of emotion in this room," Trump commented after showing off a pair of golden shoes which he put on either side of his stand. This is something I've talked about for almost 12 or 13 years," he declared. Some attendees said they were taken aback to see Trump there and continued to browse the shopping aisles, while others gathered near the stage.

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

Judy commented on Trump's attempt to connect with younger voters, but she wasn't convinced it worked. She observed: "There was no other sign of a desire to create a rapport with the younger voters. Trump was dressed in a traditional smart suit and tie rather than anything out of footwear rival Kanye West's closet."

She also noted his reaction after the speech: "As he walked offstage though, Trump looked pleased with the audience's response. He punched the air and he clapped the audience in a gesture of mutual congratulation and he raised a fist of solidarity when the chant of U-S-A broke out."

It looks like Trump is trying to win over a new crowd, with lots of young and different people there compared to his usual supporters. He might run for president again against Biden, so he's trying to get young people and African-American men to like him.

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

Trump has a new sneaker website, and it says CIC Ventures LLC runs it. This is a company he said he owns in his 2023 money report. Another company with a similar name, CIC Digital LLC, looks after his digital trading card NFTs, which are special online collectibles.

The website makes it clear that this sneaker business isn't about politics or any campaign. A person speaking for Trump didn't want to answer questions about the event, including if Trump got paid for going there.

The website says the shoes are a special, numbered "true collector's item" that is "Bold, gold, and tough, just like President Trump. The Never Surrender sneakers are your rally cry in shoe form," it says. "Lace-up and step out ready to conquer."

Just before this, a judge in New York told Trump he must pay a huge $355million fine. The judge said Trump lied about how much money he had for years, fooling banks, insurance companies, and others by saying his things were worth more than they were.

To make things worse, this big fine comes after another court said Trump has to give $83.3million to writer E. Jean Carroll. She said he hurt her name when she said he attacked her. With extra interest to pay, Trump might now owe over half a billion dollars - and we're not sure if he can pay all that.