Love Islander winner Dani Dyer has spoken about having been babysat by a well-known actor when she was younger, with her said to have been visiting Danny Dyer on set at the time

Love Island winner Dani Dyer has opened up about having been babysat by an acclaimed actor when she was younger whilst visiting her father Danny Dyer on a film set.

The reality TV star, 27 - who won the fourth series of the ITV2 show, which aired in 2018 - previously revealed that she had a notable babysitter some years ago. She recalled that it was whilst her father Danny, now 46, was working.

Dani - who is now a parent herself - has spoken further about the experience on a podcast, which is set to be released next week. She recalled being "quite young" at the time and suggested that she recognised her babysitter.

Image: Dave J Hogan/Getty Images) Dave J Hogan/Getty Images) Image: Todd Owyoung/NBC via Getty Images) Todd Owyoung/NBC via Getty Images)

Dani has said that she was babysat by Keira Knightley, now 38, some years ago. As reported by the Daily Mail, she reflects on having been looked after by the actor on the podcast Straight To The Comments, with her set to be a guest on the first episode, due to launch on Monday.

It states that Dani discusses her connection to Keira - whose acting credits the Pirates of the Caribbean film series - with hosts Josh Pieters and Archie Manners. She is quoted as having shared: "It wasn't for that long; the partner she was with at the time was in one of my dad's films. Obviously, I was quite young, and she just looked after me."

She suggested that Keira may have already been in Bend It Like Beckham (2002) by then, saying that she recalls "sort of looking at her" and feeling as though she recognised her from somewhere. Dani teased that when she returned home from the film set her mother Joanne Mas, now 47, made her aware of who it was.

Dani also shared her thoughts on Keira, who received Oscar nominations for her roles in Pride and Prejudice (2005) and The Imitation Game (2014). Dani is quoted as having said: "She was lovely; it was years and years ago, but she was lovely!"

It isn't the first time that Dani has spoken about Keira, who's known for films like Love Actually (2003). She previously spoke about their connection back in 2015, with Dani having herself been pursuing an acting career at the time.

She's understood to have told the Mirror previously: "Back then Keira was starting out just the same as I am now." She further commented about the experience: "It was only when I got older I realised how much of a big deal it was."

Dani added almost a decade ago: "She was really nice and fun, and let me stay up past my bedtime, but we didn't tell my parents. Sometimes she let me have sweets too. I would love to see her again and see if she remembered me."

And it was later suggested in her book What Would Dani Do? that it was during production of the film Outlaw (2007). Danny starred in the film alongside Rupert Friend, now 42, who is understood to have been dating Keira at the time.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.