Meghan Markle and Prince Harry have put on a untied front during their Canada visit, after the Duke and Duchess of Sussex slammed claims they're on a 'make or break' trip

Exclusive: Harry and Meghan 'stand strong' and 'lean on each other' after 'make or break' claims

Prince Harry and Meghan Markle made a "public declaration of their commitment to each other" as they continue to "stand strong" amid make or break rumours.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have put on a united display as they spend time in Canada as part of a three-day Invictus Games tour. They've been seen holding hands and smiling for the cameras after releasing a bombshell statement to insist they "will not be broken".

Relationship expert Louella Alderson believes this show of solidarity proves Meghan and Harry are trying to "push back" against the negativity. Speaking exclusively to The Mirror, she said: "This statement from Meghan and Harry is a public declaration of their commitment to each other and their relationship.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Prince Harry says Prince Archie and Princess Lilibet keep him 'grounded' amid royal feud

Image: REX/Shutterstock) REX/Shutterstock) Image: WireImage) WireImage)

"It's a way of them indicating to the public that they will stand strong as a couple despite any challenges or backlash they may face. The united displays they have been showing in Canada may also be their way of further showing their solidarity and pushing back against any negative perceptions of their marriage."

She suggested the statement shows Meghan and Harry are "highly aware of the public perception of their marriage" and they are "trying to make out that this perception is wrong". Louella added: "Facing criticism and backlash can put a strain on any relationship, but it seems that Meghan and Harry are determined not to let people think it can break them apart."

Earlier this week, Harry and Meghan hit back at claims they "have three days to prove they can behave". A representative for the couple told The Mirror: "We've heard time and time again that certain opportunities are make or break for the couple. "They're still here. They're still working and pursuing what they believe in, despite constantly being challenged and criticised. This couple will not be broken."

Image: Shutterstock) Shutterstock)

Louella suggested the statement and united displays could also be related to backlash Harry and Meghan faced following their website relaunch. The Sussexes were said to have angered Buckingham Palace after updating their site.

She told us: "With the backlash they faced following their website rebrand, it's possible that they are leaning on each other for support during this difficult time. Facing challenges as a couple can increase intimacy as both partners rely on each other for strength and comfort.

"Their trip to Vancouver, filled with activities such as skiing and holding hands, could be a way for them to escape the negative attention and focus on their relationship." She added: "By displaying a happy and loving relationship, they may be trying to counteract the negative press they received recently."

Louella Alderson is a relationship expert who spoke to The Mirror on behalf of So Syncd dating app.

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.