The cast of the Channel 4 soap opera Hollyoaks previously included actor Alfie Browne-Sykes, but he left the show eight years ago and has since worked as a roofer alongside acting

Former Hollyoaks cast member Alfie Browne-Sykes has announced that he's got engaged to his partner Aimée Scott, with the news prompting well-wishes on social media.

The actor, 29 - best known for having played Jason Roscoe on the Channel 4 show - shared the news with his followers on Instagram this afternoon. The engagement ring was showcased in a joint post by Alfie and his fiancée Aimée.

The photo showed the couple holding hands, with the ring on display following the proposal. Alfie and Aimée teased about the future on the platform in the caption that accompanied the photo: "Mr & Mrs Browne-Sykes to be."

Image: mrbrownesykes/Instagram) mrbrownesykes/Instagram) Image: mrbrownesykes/Instagram) mrbrownesykes/Instagram)

The post prompted supported messages from the couple's followers, including from some of Alfie's former colleagues. Jamie Lomas - who plays Warren Fox - wrote in the comments section earlier: "Go on mate. Congratulations."

Whilst Nikki Sanderson - who plays Maxine Minniver - also congratulated the couple. Anna Passey - who plays Sienna Blake - wrote: "Congratulations to you both! Lovely news." Former cast member Nadine Mulkerrin - who played Cleo McQueen - said: "Awww amazing. So happy for you."

Another follower reacted to the news: "So very happy for you all. What a beautiful ring." Someone else wrote: "Congratulations to you both. Such fantastic news. So happy for you both." One person said: "Massive congratulations."

Alfie was a cast member on Hollyoaks from 2013 until his departure in 2016. His character Jason was introduced as the twin of Robbie Roscoe (played by Charlie Wernham) and later married Holly Cunningham (Amanda Clapham).

Image: LIME PICTURES) LIME PICTURES)

The actor is believed to have taken up jobs as a roofer following his departure from the Channel 4 soap opera. He has however continued to act at times, including appearing in CBBC's The Dumping Ground in 2017. And his IMDb profile states that he's recently been in the film Sublime (2023).

As reported by the Sun last year, he once shared on the Just Real with Joseph James podcast: "Going to work every day, working on people's roofs and whatever, and people recognise you from Hollyoaks - that's like a hard thing to deal with at first, especially when people make comments to you and they don't realise what they are saying to you."

He's quoted as having further commented on the podcast, which is understood to have been released in 2021, that he's been just "trying to crack on" with his acting and "pursue that career". Alfie said that it's "a lot tougher than people think". He added that it involves waiting for the "right opportunities".

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.