Death In Paradise fans have worked out who Neville Parker's mystery admirer Sunset Chaser is on his blog - ahead of a rumoured big return for a much-loved character

Death In Paradise fans are convinced they've rumbled who Neville Parker's mystery admirer is.

Neville - played by Ralf Little - has decided to set up a blog about his life as a British Detective on the island of Saint Marie. However, it doesn't get many hits, with no one seemingly interested about his words. However, one mystery admirer who calls themselves Sunset Chaser has been admiring his work on the blog, with fans convinced they've rumbled who she is.

Speaking about the blog, Ralf revealed: "I think that Neville’s blog is very Neville, in that, he’s fascinated by science and geometry and the natural world. It’s not a blog that I would write, but he decides it is going to be about his time on the island.

Image: BBC / Red Planet Pictures / Denis Guyenon) BBC / Red Planet Pictures / Denis Guyenon)

"It’s quite interesting and we have a nice joke about it in the show saying, 'I'm sure lots of people out there would be interested to see the life of a British detective on a Caribbean island…' That’s the nature of his blog. However, his first article is about conchology, or the study of seashells and it’s Marlon who is very quick to point out that he doesn’t think anyone is going to read this blog."

Ralf also shared how Neville fears this mysterious Sunset Chaser could be Sophie, who deceived him in the last series.

He added: "No one really reads his blog, unsurprisingly. Apart from one fan, ‘Sunset Chaser’, who gets in touch to say his posts are interesting. The tone is flirty, and they are implied female, so Neville starts having a little bit of an online flirt. Marlon of course, thinks he's being catfished by a guy. And Neville even starts to worry that maybe it could be Sophie who’s messing with his mind…"

Fans are convinced they've worked out who Sunset Chaser is - and it's a very familiar face.

One wrote: "Sunset Chaser is Florence. Yep, I’m in full delusion & wishful thinking mode #DeathInParadise," whilst a second added: "Bet that one or the 4 people who reads Neville’s blog is Florence #DeathInParadise." A third shared: "Please let SunsetChaser be Florence #DeathInParadise," with a fourth writing: "Is Florence coming back or what???? #DeathInParadise."

However, others are less convinced it's Florence and fear it's someone much closer to Neville. One penned: "Sunset Chaser = Darlene. #DeathInParadise," with another adding: "Sunset Chaser will be Darlene. #DeathInParadise."

*Follow Mirror Celebs and TV on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.