Steve Wright's family issued a statement on Tuesday to announce he had passed away at the age of 69, with his colleagues paying tributes to their late friend

Steve Wright's cause of death is not known but the sudden death of BBC radio presenter is being treated as 'unexpected', but not suspicious, according to the police.

The BBC Radio 2 host was found dead at his home on Monday morning aged 69. Tributes soon flooded in for the legendary radio presenter from his BBC colleagues to close friends and adoring listeners. Steve held his much-loved BBC Radio 2 slot from 1999 until 2022 when it was taken over by Scott Mills.

At the time he hinted that it wasn't his decision to end the show, as following his death some friends have shared how the loss of his show "devastated" him. Steve had reportedly spoken to BBC Radio bosses in recent days about his health. He last appeared on air on Sunday for a pre-recorded Valentines Day special two days before his death, in what was to become his final ever broadcast.

The BBC paid homage to the great presenter with four dedicated Top of the Pops episodes hosted by Steve that aired on Friday night. Bosses at Radio 2 have also agreed to honour the star with a special edition of his much-loved Sunday Love Songs show this Sunday.

Here is a look at everything we know about the presenter's tragic death so far...

Image: BBC) BBC)

Secret heart operation

A close friend of Steve's has revealed he underwent a heart bypass 15 months before his death.

According to Mark Wells, the former controller of ITV Entertainment, the much-loved broadcaster had undergone secret surgery before his passing and was 'more ill than he let on.'

Speaking about his late friend on Colin Edmonds' podcast Behind The Scenes, Mr Wells said: "Steve had a heart operation about 15months ago. He had a bypass operation that had gone well…and I think he was more ill than he was letting on. The recovery had gone pretty well but the events of the last couple of days was probably what in the end came for him," he added.

Radio 2 U-turn

A friend of Steve's has claimed he was offered his weekday afternoon slot on BBC Radio 2 back shortly before his death.

According to Mark Wells, the former controller of ITV Entertainment, Steve asked about a return to the slot that was taken over by Scott Mills in 2022.

He said: "This is absolutely the truth and the BBC will deny this but this is what Steve said to me last Friday. He said: ‘Guess what happened this week. I got a call from Radio 2 and they very quietly asked me how I would feel about going back to do the afternoons’.

“My reaction was like yours followed by laughter, I said ‘Oh my god what do you think of that?’ And he said well he thought it was funny as well. And he said ‘I dont know if you should ever go back in life though do you?’

“Given what’s happened since I feel that gives the story of Steve Wright’s broadcasting career a wonderful symmetry ….there’s a slight poetry to it somehow.”

Sunday Love Songs returns

Steve Wright's Sunday Love Songs returned to the air days after his death with a special episode dedicated to the late host. Steve's friend and Radio 2 colleague Liza Tarbuck took over hosting as she played the late presenter's favourite tracks and shared memories from his beloved listeners.

Opening the emotionally-charged show, Liza began: "Good morning to you we are live in Wogan House. This is is Steve Wright's Sunday Love Songs without the chief... without our genius friend. So while you're getting a tissue I think it would be lovely if you lit him a candle.

"I make no apologies if I get upset during the next two hours and you shouldn't either," she added.

It's understood that Steve pre-recorded one last episode of his Sunday show before his death which the BBC have decided not to air.

Steve's son pays tribute

Steve Wright's son Tom has paid tribute to the BBC star and said he got to know him in a way he 'never had before' after caring for him before he died. Tom left his home in Los Angeles to fly to London to be with his dad in his final weeks.

In an emotional post in view of his 610 followers, Tom said: "God rest your soul Dad, and thank you for all your for all the kind words from all the lives that he touched and people that loved him. It's gonna be an intense few days, so catching up and hearing from old friends and new would mean more than anything else right now too...

"Rough as it may be, I thank the Gods I'm sober, as this would have straight up killed me even a couple of years ago after losing Mum over the pandemic in the same way without getting to see him before he passed after flying back to take care of the old blighter. Still, I will cherish every memory we made, and it's not like I don't have a few shows to be working through whenever I miss his voice, though tears me up too much now to consider...

"But it means the world hearing from so many beloved friends of his and mine and I only hope to make him proud; and build on his legacy with kindness and love anyways I can! Love you all and miss you already dad. #ConnectionAsCure," alongside a broken heart emoji.

Farewell to a legend

A week on from Steve's last ever broadcast, the BBC aired four special editions of Top of the Pops on Friday night, which the presenter had previously hosted - including his last outing in October 1989. The final episode ended with a portrait of Steve taken at Wogan house leaving viewers in tears.

"Saw the first episode and thought how good he was," posted one fan to social media. "It was a pleasure to watch 4 vintage top of the pops presented by Steve Wright last night on BBC 4. The last one was his final ever episode and fittingly it ended with him and his co presenter genuinely laughing," added another.

"Watching reruns of Top of the Pops featuring Steve Wright. Some of the performances haven’t stood the test of time, but Steve’s enthusiasm shines through it all. A sad loss," agreed another.

On Friday it was confirmed that BBC Radio 2 will air a special edition of Steve's Sunday Love Songs show this weekend to remember some of the presenter's best on-air moments. It has been reported Steve pre-recorded an episode of the show before his death that will never be aired.

Police statement

Emergency services were rushed to the BBC Radio DJ's home in Marylebone, London on Monday, just after 10am. Steve was pronounced dead at the scene and the police have confirmed his "unexpected" death is not being treated as suspicious.

A spokesperson for the Metropolitan Police said: "A man in his 60s was pronounced dead at the scene. His next of kin have been informed. The death was unexpected, but is not being treated as suspicious. A report will be prepared for the coroner." London Ambulance Service confirmed they were called to the address following "reports of an incident". Despite their efforts, Steve was sadly pronounced dead at the scene.

Steve's brother shares 'hidden' health battles

Steve's brother has claimed the late broadcaster died due to lifestyle choices and a poor diet. Laurence Wright, 65, has broken his silence following the death of Steve earlier this week, dismissing claims his late sibling died "due to a broken heart" following his BBC Radio 2 afternoon slot being axed in 2022. However, Laurence says this wasn't the case at all and his late brother was actually glad of the rest.

"He was aware that he could have looked after himself better, in his lifestyle choices. Obviously we all wish he had," Laurence said today when discussing his brother's passing. "It's like anyone who doesn't look after themselves over an extended period. The normal stuff - diet, nutrition, exercise, sleep, stress - he was a very stoic kind of guy as well so if he had something wrong with him and he had to go to have some treatment or go to the doctors, he wouldn't talk about it."

He went on to tell the MailOnline: "That's just how he was - that probably didn't help really, because he wouldn't have help or take advice necessarily." Laurence continued to explain how Steve didn't agree with the decision to ditch his weekday show almost two years ago, but he had needed a break.

Neighbours voice shock

Neighbours of broadcast legend Steve Wright expressed their 'huge shock' at the star's 'very unexpected' death, as they paid tribute to a 'genuinely warm and humble man.'

The BBC Radio 2 presenter was found dead at his £2million flat close to Marylebone High Street in Central London on Monday morning. Tony White, 60, who lived in the same Victorian block as Wright for nine-years said his death was a 'huge shock' and 'very unexpected'.

Last photo

Image: @AJMusicProds / X) @AJMusicProds / X)

Following the news of Steve's sudden death, many of his friends, colleagues and listeners paid tribute to the radio star. Composer Anthony James took to social media to share a snap of Steve alongside a heartfelt tribute , which is believed to be the one of the last photos of Steve. The photo showed the two pals posing for a comical selfie which was taken in New York just four weeks before Steve's death.

A heartbroken Anthony shared: "I can't sleep. I'm thinking of my dear friend Steve. We took this picture 4 weeks ago in New York. We were trying to do, as he put it 'ironic selfies'. He had such a love of Life and radio. .He told me 'AJ the blond hair has to go!' I miss him #RIPSteveWright."

While Steve's friend of 40 years Gary Farrow has said all Steve needed was "an arm round the shoulder" following the axe of his BBC weekday radio show, but it never came. He said Steve was "devastated" by the loss of his show, as colleague Liz Kershaw recently suggested the broadcaster "dumped him". Gary told the Sun: "Steve lived for that show, he absolutely loved it - and the listeners loved him. My view is that he died from a broken heart."

Tragic final days

Steve's listeners heard the DJ in his beloved BBC Radio 2 slot just two days before his death was announced. The presenter hosted a Valentine's Day special of his Sunday Love Songs, in what became his final ever broadcaster. During the romantic special, Steve asked his dedicated listeners: "How is everyone? Is everything working?" He signed off his final show with a heartbreaking promise that he was unable to keep.

"I'm back for more love songs next Sunday. Ta-ra then," Steve said. He also recorded another show which is said to be "in the can" but won't be airing. Former Radio 2 colleague Ken Bruce was "shocked" to hear the news and said Steve and his friends were planning to celebrate his MBE with a lunch. "An outstanding and innovative broadcaster whose listeners loved him. What a loss to the world of radio," he explained.

It has also been reported Steve reached out to show bosses in a final chat over the last few days about his health. "Steve had been talking to Radio 2 bosses just two or three days ago," one BBC star claimed. They continued: "We were aware he was struggling with his health a bit but nothing that seemed this serious. It has come as a huge shock. Nobody can believe it. He was engaging with his colleagues so recently. It doesn't seem at all real," reports the Daily Mail.

Family announcement

Steve's death was announced by his family in a heartbreaking statement which read: "It is with deep sorrow and profound regret that we announce the passing of our beloved Steve Wright. In addition to his son, Tom, and daughter, Lucy, Steve leaves behind his brother, Laurence and his father Richard.

"Also, much-loved close friends and colleagues, and millions of devoted radio listeners who had the good fortune and great pleasure of allowing Steve into their daily lives as one of the UK's most enduring and popular radio personalities. As we all grieve, the family requests privacy at this immensely difficult time."

Radio 2 colleagues 'shocked and saddened'

Steve's death has led to an outpouring of grief from his Radio 2 colleagues, many of whom have shared their total shock at the news.

The presenter had a lengthy tenure at the broadcaster after first joining the BBC in the 1970s before going on to host afternoon shows on both Radio 1 and 2. Steve became a firm favourite of his co-stars and listeners, many of who expressed their shock when his weekday show was handed over to Scott Mills.

Sara Cox was left visibly shaken as she announced the news live on air on Tuesday night. The morning after, early morning breakfast host Nicki Chapman was also reduced to tears as she read out listener tributes to Steve. She said: "It is so difficult to sum up what Steve meant to all of us. The devastatingly sad news has come as a complete shock. Everyone seems to have such fond memories of our Wrighty because that's how we viewed and that's how we listened to him. He was ours. He was our mate, talking to us in our kitchens as we made a brew, in our bedrooms, in the shower, in our cars, taxis, lorries, in our form rooms at school, in our gardens, at work - he was always in our hearts."

Vernon Kay also paid tribute to Steve on his show, saying he wanted to have a "smile" throughout to remember his late colleague. Yet it all became too much as the BBC orchestra paid a special tribute to Steve by performing his iconic theme tune. Vernon broke down, leaving co-star Jeremy Vine to step in.

Ken Bruce shared a tribute online to his colleague and friend, sharing they were due to meet up with each other for lunch. He shared on X: "Totally shocked to hear the news about the great Steve Wright. We were planning lunch to celebrate the award of his richly deserved MBE. An outstanding and innovative broadcaster whose listeners loved him. What a loss to the world of radio."

Noel Edmonds appeared on This Morning where he praised Steve for being a "marvellous man" and decaled the "end of an era". He said: "He had integrity, he had sincerity, he had this incredible commitment to the people he would never meet. We are unfortunately, I think, coming to the end of that radio era. So please, cherish the Ken Bruces and Tony Blackburns, cherish them because we're coming to the end of an era."

BBC speaks out

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

In a tribute to Steve, Tim Davie, BBC Director General, shared: "All of us at the BBC are heartbroken to hear this terribly sad news. Steve was a truly wonderful broadcaster who has been a huge part of so many of our lives over many decades. He was the ultimate professional – passionate about the craft of radio and deeply in touch with his listeners. This was deservedly recognised in the New Year Honours list with his MBE for services to radio. No-one had more energy to deliver shows that put a smile on audiences’ faces. They loved him deeply. We are thinking of Steve and his family and will miss him terribly."

Helen Thomas, Head of Radio 2, paid tribute to Steve as she remembered his glittering career. She said: "Steve understood the connection and companionship that radio engenders better than anyone, and we all loved him for it. He was a consummate professional whose attention to detail was always second to none, and he made his guests laugh, he was fair, and he wanted to showcase them and their work in the best possible light, bringing brilliant stories to our listeners.

"Steve’s afternoon show was an institution that began on Radio 1 and later moved over to Radio 2 where it was broadcast for 23 years. He believed in the BBC passionately during his career that spanned for more than four decades, and he was always up for pursuing new ideas. He brought joy to millions of listeners with his Sunday Love Songs as well as the legendary Pick of the Pops, which he took on last year and was having fun experimenting with, alongside a host of specials and new BBC Sounds formats which he loved doing.

"Steve was the first presenter I ever produced more than twenty years ago, and I remember the pure amazement I felt, sitting opposite this legendary broadcaster whose shows I had listened to and marvelled at whilst growing up in Hull. For all of us at Radio 2, he was a wonderful colleague and a friend with his excellent sense of humour, generosity with his time, and endless wise words. We were lucky to have him with us for all these decades, and we will miss his talent and his friendship terribly."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok,Snapchat,Instagram,Twitter,Facebook,YouTubeandThreads.