Manchester United earned all three points against Luton, but were made to work right until the final whistle, despite racing into a two-goal lead at Kenilworth Road

Erik ten Hag criticised his Manchester United side for making an ‘easy game’ difficult by spurning chances vs Luton.

United picked up their fifth successive victory, winning 2-1 at Kenilworth Road. But the visitors had to cling on for all three points, despite racing into a two-goal lead after just seven minutes.

Rasmus Hojlund opened the scoring after less than a minute, before he made it two with the game still in its opening exchanges. At that point, it looked like United could run away with it, only to see Carlton Morris reduce the arrears in the 14th minute.

But Ten Hag’s side continued to create - and miss - chances, with the home support growing in belief as the game wore on. United ultimately held on to keep the pressure on the teams above them, but the Dutchman picked out Marcus Rashford, Alejandro Garnacho and Bruno Fernandes for failing to convert opportunities.

"I think quick up and, as you say, we had good chances with Garnacho and Rashford, it could have been three or four-nil,” he told Match of the Day. "After that we lose some focus and we are not so strict in what we should do and they came more in the game. We dropped too deep and allowed them too many passes.

"We gave some chances away and they got the 2-1. That's no good. But after half-time we picked it up. We had several chances.

“So many chances one against one. I think it was Garnacho, Rashford again, it was Bruno Fernandes. We had so many chances, it should be 3-1 in these moments.”

He added: "Their goal brought the pressure on. They had crosses into the box and shots, but not the chances we had. We had big chances and with our abilities, we should have scored.

"We make the progress but also you see we have to stay focused during the whole game. I will not say switch off, but when you do a little bit less, then you get punished.

"We can't afford this. We have to be all-time 100 per cent focused. Do your job together, in and out of possession and then you can control your games. What could have been an easy win was now a difficult win."

United’s win brings them three points behind Tottenham in fifth and five behind Aston Villa in fourth. “We’re back in the race,” Ten Hag told Sky Sports.

“Now we just need to keep the momentum, we need to put the pressure on the teams ahead of us, we just need to go from game-to-game and know every game is a final for us.”

Join our new WhatsApp community a nd receive your daily dose of Mirror Football content. We also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don't like our community, you can check out any time you like. If you're curious, you can read our Privacy Notice.