The Duchess of Sussex, Meghan Markle, seemingly made a sweet and quiet nod to her mother-in-law Princess Diana with a chic and royal-inspired outfit in Canada last night

Meghan Markle seemingly made a quiet yet sweet nod to her late mother-in-law Princess Diana with the chic outfit she wore last night in Canada.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have been spending some time in Canada to promote the Invictus Games, and yesterday they were in attendance at the Hillcrest Community Centre in Vancouver for a wheelchair curling event. And while in attendance, Meghan looked extremely elegant in a £1028 Sentaler cape in a dark camel hue, with shawl collar details, and a belt that cinched her figure in at the waist.

Meghan paired her chic look with some gloves, which might have been a sweet nod to her mother-in-law, Princess Diana. Members of the Royal Family have long worn gloves because they can help maintain cleanliness and hygiene, especially when interacting with numerous people at events where handshakes and close contact are common.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Prince Harry's televised interview 'was for PR' but he is 'keen to build bridges'

Image: WireImage) WireImage) Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

Princess Diana often sported gloves when attending events or engagements. The former Princess of Wales was also a lover of wearing beige-coloured coats, which makes Meghan's outfit resemble something her mother-in-law would have worn even more.

Meghan completed her chic and very royal look with a side-parted low ponytail, and some modern-looking chunky earrings. Her makeup was kept minimal, yet she still had a glowy appearance and wide accentuated eyes.

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

In the photos from the event, that saw Meghan looking chic, the Duchess looked bundled up and warm as she happily cheered on her husband alongside her close pals Michael Bublé and his wife Luisana. Meghan and Prince Harry struck up the unlikely friendship with the couple after ditching their former friends David and Victoria Beckham.

The event that they were attending wrapped up the One Year to Go activities for the Games, with Prince Harry, the government, and Invictus Games representatives saying a few words after the demonstration of wheelchair curling.

On the Sussexes new Sussex.com website, the Duke and Duchess have added a page highlighting their appearance at the wheelchair demonstration. The page reads: "The Duke and Duchess spent the morning with Invictus alumni, military families, sponsors, supporters, Michael Bublé and Luisana Lopilato. The Duke spoke from the heart and delivered touching remarks to those gathered.

"The Hillcrest Community Centre was built to host the 2010 Vancouver Olympic and Paralympic Curling competitions. The facility is a showcase for local community activities including an ice hockey rink, library, gymnasium, and large aquatic facility.

"Invictus Games Vancouver Whistler 2025 will host a fun family Bonspiel event for competitors and Family and Friends to compete together. During competition, Family and Friends will also have access to the swimming pool, ice arena and public library."

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .