Model Christine McGuinness took to her Instagram Stories to tell fans she had to take her daughter Felicity, seven, to A&E after she had a gymnastics accident

Christine McGuinness revealed she had to rush her seven-year-old daughter Felicity to A&E after she suffered a minor injury.

The 35-year-old model, who also has 10-year-old twins Penelope and Leo with Paddy McGuinness, took to her social media page to share a photo from triage in A&E. She wrote over the snap: "Currently spending my Saturday here though so hopefully I'll see you at the charity match tomorrow depending on how my little lady.

"Just a minor injury at gymnastics, she's made of strong stuff so we're good, just another day in the life of a mama." An hour later, the star returned to her Instagram Stories to reassure fans that her daughter was doing okay and was enjoying a well-deserved meal and snuggles.

Along with a mirror selfie, Christine said: "All home. Mummy, McDs and extra snuggles on demand. NHS Macclesfield Hospital was absolutely amazing and extra gentle with my girl today. Thank you. To the lady in the waiting area who gave my daughter some sensory toys, thank you."

Christine's posts come several days after she and Paddy were praised by fans for sharing a cute family moment in their shared home - despite the fact the pair are currently going through a divorce. Christine and comedian Paddy, 50, split almost two years ago but continue to live in the same house as they parent their three children who all live with Autism.

She recently said their home situation is unusual and before their Christmas celebrations at the end of last year, she revealed the former couple 'have to move on'. In recent snaps, the duo - who announced their split in 2022 after 11 years of marriage - shared the sweet moment with fans.

He posted a photo of their feet touching as they sat back and watched TV. Along with the picture, Paddy joked: "Strong high arch game in our house but there can be only one! Who takes the crown and the Pes Cavus bragging rights? Mum or Dad? School boy error leaving my socks on."

Fans rushed to the comment section to compliment Paddy and Christine for their healthy relationship despite the split. One Instagram user commented: "You both have such a lovely relationship regardless of whether it is just as parents or as husband and wife which is no one else's business. But credit to both of you for ensuring the children are not caught between either parent but is both of your priorities. you are a lovely family." "You two are such an amazing example for your children. Whatever you do, kids come first and you two are freaking winning," another echoed.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .