Meghan Markle and Prince Harry have once again thrown themselves into the action during their Canada trip as they tried out wheelchair curling

Harry beams with pal Michael Buble as they try wheelchair curling while Meghan watches on in glee

Meghan Markle and Prince Harry have once again thrown themselves into the action during their Canada trip as they tried out wheelchair curling - this time alongside a native legend in Michael Buble.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have been on a three-day trip to mark a year until next year's Invictus Games Vancouver Whistler. Their latest efforts saw the duo also be alongside veterans from the Canadian Armed Forces and their families and other guests as they participated in a demonstration of the sport at Hillcrest Community Centre.

The event wrapped up the One Year to Go activities for the Games, with Harry, government and Invictus Games representatives saying a few words after the demonstration.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Meghan Markle says just one word during Prince Harry's appearance on Good Morning America

Image: WireImage) WireImage)

The demonstration was one of several Harry has thrown himself into during his visit. On the first day he was seen whizzing down the slopes on adaptive skis. Meghan was all smiles on the sidelines as she was seen taking a picture of her husband as he prepared to try out the snow. She was said to have taken a snap of Harry to show their kids, Prince Archie and Princess Lilibet.

The couple also spent an evening touring the Squamish Lil’wat Cultural Centre with Youth Ambassadors, Chief Nelson and Wilson Williams during their jam-packed itinerary. On their newly-launched website, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex revealed their recognised the significance of the welcome the First Nations communities have provided for next year's Invictus Games in the country on their sacred land. They went on to share their gratitude for the "warmth and hospitality".

Image: REX/Shutterstock) REX/Shutterstock) Image: WireImage) WireImage)

Harry also spoke to GMA on Friday and praised his family, but refused to talk about his dad, King Charles' condition. He told the show their conversation "stays between me and him".

When asked how he found out about the King's condition, Harry explained: "I spoke to him." Host Will Reeve then asked: "And what did you do next?" Harry replied: "I jumped on a plane and went to go see him as soon as I could."

Image: GMA/Twitter) GMA/Twitter)

Harry also comments that he feels lucky to have been able to visit his father following the diagnosis, having made the short visit back to London last week. He said: "Look I love my family. The fact that I was able to get on a plane and go and see him and spend any time with him I'm grateful for that." When asked if the diagnosis could have a "reunifying effect" amid their feud, Harry said he is certain it will.

"Yeah, I'm sure. Throughout all these families I see it on a day-to-day basis the strength of the family unit coming together. I think any illness, any sickness brings families together."

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .