Newcastle United sporting director Dan Ashworth is a target in Sir Jim Ratcliffe's Manchester United revolution, but it appears the 52-year-old would not come cheap

Manchester United will be forced to wait until 2026 to bring in Dan Ashworth from Newcastle United unless they're prepared to fork out more than £20million, it has been claimed.

Ashworth, who joined Newcastle as sporting director in early 2022, has become the latest boardroom target following Sir Jim Ratcliffe's arrival at Old Trafford. The 52-year-old has overseen significant recruitment to help the Magpies qualify for this season's Champions League, before sealing summer moves for the likes of Sandro Tonali and Tino Livramento.

His Old Trafford links appear to have worried Newcastle boss Eddie Howe, who indicated Ashworth has some knowledge of the club's summer transfer plans. It appears Manchester United won't have things all their way, though, with a tough decision potentially awaiting them.

According to The Telegraph, Ashworth's gardening leave period is twice as long as had previously been suggested. Newcastle have previously indicated they're not prepared to let him leave on the cheap, and the choice appears to be one of meeting their asking price, north of the £20m mark, or waiting two years.

The same outlet indicates that Ashworth informed Newcastle of his desire to leave after the club's draw with Bournemouth on Saturday. The Cherries led twice at St James' Park, only for former Bournemouth man Matt Ritchie to equalise against his old club.

That result, coupled with Manchester United's win at Luton on Sunday, means the gap between the two sides has grown to seven points. Erik ten Hag's side are now just three points adrift of fifth place and five points behind Aston Villa in fourth.

Manchester United's interest in Ashworth comes after the appointment of Omar Berrada as CEO. Berrada will join from City Football Group , where he has been serving as chief operating officer, while former Manchester City academy director Jason Wilcox has been considered for the role of technical director.

Is Dan Ashworth worth £20m to Manchester United? Have your say in the comments section

Image: Richard Lee/REX/Shutterstock) Richard Lee/REX/Shutterstock)

Wilcox, who won the Premier League as a player with Blackburn Rovers, has served as Southampton's director of football operations since leaving his role at City in January 2023. Saints boss Russell Martin was asked about the 52-year-old's future on Friday and indicated there was nothing to the links

“I spoke to [Southampton chief executive] Phil Parsons on Tuesday and Jason both yesterday and this morning and I’ve been told there’s nothing in it," Martin said. "That’s all I’ve got to say on it. If anything else has happened in the meantime, I’ll have another opinion.

“I’ve said how good he has been for me. The ownership group has, but Jason was a big driver in that. He’s either really brave - or really crazy - and we’ll see, but I’ve loved working with him and I’m enjoying working with him and hopefully that will be for some time yet.”

Join our new WhatsApp communityand receive your daily dose of Mirror Football content. We also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don't like our community, you can check out any time you like. If you're curious, you can read our Privacy Notice.