Following a meeting with King Charles last week, a source said Prince Harry would be willing to help out the Royal Family while his father is unwell if he was asked to do so

Prince Harry would be willing to return to royal duties if his father asked him to but is unlikely to do the first step, a source has claimed.

The Duke of Sussex sat down for a chat with King Charles after flying from the US to the UK last week following the monarch's cancer diagnosis. He spent around half an hour with his father before returning to his wife Meghan Markle and their two children who remained in California.

In an interview with Good Morning America yesterday, Harry said he thinks the King's illness could bring the family together after years of tension and he declared: "I love my family." The monarch's younger son is also likely to bring his children to England more often so they can spend some time with their three cousins and their grandparents, sources have claimed.

READ MORE: Prince Harry will likely bring Lilibet and Archie to the UK amid King's cancer diagnosis

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

A source close to Harry said "he would try" to help out if his father asked him to, telling Page Six: "I have a hard time believing if his dad asks for his help that Harry would say no, I think he would try." But the insider added: "I don't think it's something that Harry would ask [to do] on his own."

Meanwhile, The Times reported that Harry told friends he would step into a temporary royal role while Charles is unwell. The duke and his father are said to have had several "warm exchanges" since the King's illness was diagnosed, it was claimed.

Image: LightRocket via Getty Images) LightRocket via Getty Images) Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

Harry, who stepped down as a working royal alongside his wife Meghan Markle, the Duchess of Sussex, in 2020, is a counsellor of state but is not expected to take up any of the King's duties while he recovers. A royal source has also told the newspaper that Charles, 75, is keen to reconcile and see more of his son, and believes doing so would benefit the monarchy.

The source told The Times: "On all practical levels it makes perfect sense for the family to come together to support the King while he's sick. Much has been said on both sides in recent years, but that has never diminished the fundamental bond of blood, and there are now pragmatic aspects to consider, with the King and Kate's wellbeing paramount in this.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

"The details of the Clarence House meeting and subsequent conversations are private, but the feeling is that this arrangement could work." A written plan would need to be drawn up by the King and his aides before Harry could return to any official duties and would not receive public funds, the newspaper said.

Harry and Meghan travelled to Canada this week and attended a number of events with Invictus competitors to mark a year to go until Harry's Invictus Games, for wounded and sick veterans and military, is staged in the country. They have been followed by a film crew led by Will Reeve, the son of the late Superman star Christopher Reeve, who interviewed Harry for GMA.

Image: ABC) ABC)

Gesturing towards Invictus competitors, Harry added: "Throughout all these families I see it on a day-to-day basis, the strength of the family unit coming together. I think any illness, any sickness brings families together."

Since stepping down as working royals in 2020 and moving to California the Sussexes have aired allegations and grievances against the monarchy and members of the royal family which have also soured relations. Speaking with Reeve, Harry said: "Look I love my family. The fact that I was able to get on a plane and go and see him and spend any time with him, I'm grateful for that."