The Traitors star Mollie Pearce has shared the eight-letter expletive she branded winner Harry Clark in an off-camera showdown. The disability model and campaigner admitted she was so angry about his trickery she couldn’t hold her tongue when they came face to face.

Speaking on our Invite Only podcast, Mollie said: “Harry walks in and I'm like, ‘No’. I just called him a name… Can I swear? I was just like, ‘You're a d*******’. Then I gave him a hug.” She insists that now the pair have made their peace, and he owes her nothing.

Months later, as the show aired, Mollie found herself at the centre of a social media backlash as she was targeted by trolls. The abuse she received was so vicious that she quit X altogether. And she believes viewers would have hated her no matter what. Mollie said: “Obviously people are upset at the outcome, but in my honest opinion, I think no matter what I did that night people would have been upset because Harry played a great game. If he lost, people would have said I didn't deserve to win, and then, obviously the opposite way, Jazz played a great game as well.”

Image: PA) PA)

Mollie, who in a relationship with her boyfriend Max, said he also deleted X after being shocked by the level of abuse. She added: “. I felt like I just couldn't win. The first half of the show I wasn't in it that much, and people were like, ‘Oh she's so pointless, like why did they even cast her?’

“Then there was one round table where I started to actually speak a little bit and everyone was like, ‘She won't shut up.’ I felt like I was fighting a losing battle and it's quite tempting to look at these things. My partner was looking and he didn't like it either, and he deleted it. We had a viewing party. I was with some of the other cast and I just left my phone in my bag because I was like, the nation's just seen the worst moment of my life so maybe I won't go on it for a minute. I just left it until the next day.”

But the reality star, who suffers from ulcerative colitis and has a stoma bag, told how she has been thrilled by the response from fellow sufferers - many of whom have thanked her for raising awareness. Mollie, who also has a limb difference on one hand, said: “I’ve had hundreds of messages and I’m trying to get through them all because I do want to reply to people. That’s been amazing, I think it’s made it all worth it.

“I had a message the other day from a mum, and her daughter had just had a stoma bag and she’d been really struggling mentally with it. She said seeing me on TV was really, really nice. I also had someone message me who had just come out of surgery. She was two days into recovery and she was watching The Traitors from her hospital bed. I would have loved to have seen someone on my screen with a stoma bag when I just had my surgery.”

Listen to Mollie’s full chat on podcast Invite Only here.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .