Keir Starmer's remarks come as Labour faces pressure to back an SNP motion in the Commons this week demanding an 'immediate ceasefire' in the Middle East conflict

Keir Starmer has called for a "ceasefire that lasts" and an end to the fighting in Gaza ahead of a crunch Commons vote.

It comes as Labour faces intense pressure to back an SNP motion on Wednesday demanding an "immediate ceasefire" in the Middle East conflict as the Palestinian death toll continues to grow.

Addressing the Scottish Labour conference, Mr Starmer said all Israeli hostages must be released, an "end to the killing of innocent Palestinians", and rapid urgent humanitarian relief. He added: "Not just for now, not just for a pause, but permanently. A ceasefire that lasts. That is what must happen now. The fighting must stop now."

The Labour leader also urged Israel's PM Benjamin Netanyahu not to extend the military offensive to the southern Gaza city of Rafah. He said: "The offensive threatened on Rafah, a place where one-and-a-half million people are now cramped together in unimaginable conditions with nowhere else for them to go. This cannot become a new theatre of war. That offensive cannot happen. Even in these most terrible of circumstances, a two-state solution must be back on the table."

Earlier David Lammy suggested Labour would examine the SNP motion amid global concern over the Israeli bombardment of Gaza. The Shadow Foreign Secretary said: "It must stop - over 28,000 have lost their lives, women and children. It's abominable. So of course people want to see a ceasefire. The question now is how. To be absolutely clear when that ceasefire comes we can't see the fighting restart. It has to be sustainable".

Last year's vote on a ceasefire in the Commons saw the biggest revolt of Mr Starmer's leadership so far with eight frontbench resignations. At the time Labour was calling for "humanitarian pauses" - leading to 56 MPs breaking ranks and defying the whip. In recent weeks Mr Starmer has backed calls for a "sustainable ceasefire".

Mr Lammy declined to say how Labour MPs might vote on the new SNP motion demanding an "immediate ceasefire" in the Middle East conflict. He told the BBC's Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg: "I haven't seen the motion, it's not yet put down, we will scrutinise that motion as is our way in Parliament and we will take it from there.

"Let us be clear, yes we will have a vote in Parliament this week. But it's not that vote that will bring about a ceasefire - it's the diplomatic action, it's Hamas, it's Benjamin Netanyahu, it's partners for peace saying the fighting must now stop."

Mr Lammy's remarks came after the Scottish Labour conference in Glasgow backed calls for an immediate ceasefire. The party's Scottish Labour leader Anas Sarwar also described the SNP motion as "perfectly reasonable". He said this was not a call for a "unilateral" end to the fighting.

He told Sky News: "A ceasefire means the end of violence and rocket fire in Gaza, but also absolutely has to mean an end to rocket fire coming out of Gaza. It also includes the immediate release of hostages, I don't think we can emphasise that enough. Alongside humanitarian aid needing to get in and the pathway to a two-state solution."

The SNP's Westminster leader Stephen Flynn, who tabled the motion, offered to meet Mr Starmer in the Commons on Monday. He said: "Given the importance of this issue - literally a discussion of life and death - the very least the public would expect is that the leaders of the SNP and the Labour Party at Westminster can sit down and have a discussion on this ceasefire motion. I am therefore proposing, and offering, that we meet tomorrow to discuss Wednesday's ceasefire motion".

He added over the weekend: "It's time for Sir Keir Starmer to commit to supporting our motion for an immediate ceasefire. There can be no more delays. Thousands of children, women and civilians have lost their life since both the Tories and Labour cowardly rejected our last motion - they cannot make that same mistake again. History will remember this vote."