Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have been advised to move away from using their royal titles as the Duke and Duchess of Sussex by a PR guru amid their 'huge brand rebuild'

Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have been advised to move away from using their royal titles as they begin a "huge brand rebuild".

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex "have been on the PR charm offensive" recently, according to an expert. The Sussexes launched their new website earlier this week, with the couple then flying out to Canada for the One Year to Go celebrations ahead of the 2025 Invictus Games. And while out in Vancouver, Prince Harry even gave a rare televised interview with Good Morning America, with Meghan making a brief appearance in the segment where she said just one word.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US.

READ MORE: Prince Harry already has plans to return to the UK to see his family after brief visit

Image: WireImage) WireImage)

But, according to a PR guru, if the couple wants to reap the rewards from the positive work they are doing, then they need to do one thing.

Speaking to The Mirror, Lynn Carratt from Press Box PR has said: "This week, Meghan and Harry have been on the PR charm offensive. This is the start of a huge rebrand for them." She then touched on the couple's new website "which really hypes up their individual accomplishments and heavily focuses on their royal connections".

Touching on the one thing that the couple can do to ensure they reap the rewards from their "individual talents and achievements", Lynn said: "While no one can take away Harry’s birthright as the son of the King of England, I firmly believe if they want to pursue independence, they should consider moving away from using their royal connections to make money and become plain old Harry and Meghan who are making it on their own because of their individual talents and achievements."

She then went on to talk about the couple's public appearance in Whistler, Canada, which was to promote the 2025 Invictus Games, which will take place in the ski resort next February. "The Invictus Games provides an excellent platform for wounded, sick and injured veterans to showcase their mental and physical strength. It’s one of Harry’s projects I’m entirely behind - I even attended the first games in London," she said.

"These days, we rarely see Meghan and Harry attending significant events together; if we do, it’s usually at some Hollywood event that is often irrelevant to their brand, like the Bob Marley premiere. Now we’re in the post-memoir era, it’s time for them to really focus on a brand rebuild.

"Their appearance in Canada, a country they have close ties to, promoting a cause like the Invictus Games, can only have a positive PR impact on their image," Lynn concluded.

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .