Former Made In Chelsea star Louise Thompson has opened up about the toll her ill health has paid on her toddler son Leo.

This month the 33-year-old reality star was hospitalised for two weeks after her health took a downward while on a family holiday. Louise said she masked the pain after suffering with chronic pain since the birth of her first child. Louise has faced challenging health conditions in recent years, with her being diagnosed with lupus in December following having a difficult childbirth when welcoming her son, which saw her develop PTSD.

Louise had been holidaying with her son and fiancé Ryan Libbey in Antigua when her physical and mental health went into decline, forcing her to be admitted to hospital where she stayed for a number of weeks. During this time, the mum was unsure whether she wanted her son to visit and see her in the condition that she was.

Image: Instagram/ @louise.thompson) Instagram/ @louise.thompson) Image: louise.thompson/instagram) louise.thompson/instagram)

When Leo was given the opportunity to see his mum, 12 days into the hospital stay, Louise said it was "pure magic" and has hailed the visit as "motivation" for her to get well enough to come home, after which "everything went back to normal". In an update to her followers on social media, Louise admitted the reaction of her son "upset" her.

She shared: "The good news is that when I came home everything went back to normal. He has been wonderful and things feel good. I have to admit that when I was in hospital last January (don’t know whether to laugh or cry at how silly this all feels) things were a little worse when I came home so I was apprehensive .He was really rather angry at me for a day. He wouldn’t come near me and I found it.

"He wouldn’t come near me and I found it v upsetting. He was behaving like I’d abandoned him. I’m not sure why the change in age has made such a big difference to his reaction but things felt easier this time.⁣"

Louise then posed a question to her fans about hospital visits involving children and asked: "Does anyone know anything about the psychology of a child visiting their parent in hospital?" She went on to reveal that Ryan had issues with hospital visits as he had to see his own mum in hospital when he was a child. Louise wrote: "When Ryan was young(ish) … well we’ve now established he was about 8 years old - he saw his mum in hospital connected to lots of wires after a major back surgery and the memory still stings him to this day. Ryan’s not very good with hospital. I don’t judge him for it. That’s one of the reasons why we thought long and hard about bringing Leo in to visit."

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .