Prince Harry made a touching speech as he and Meghan Markle marked the end of their three day trip in Vancouver to celebrate the One Year to Go activities for the Invictus Games in 2025

Harry's heartfelt speech in full as he gushes 'this is why we do what we do' after emotional trip

Prince Harry made an emotional speech to the crowds in Vancouver on the final day of his three day trip to Canada.

The Duke was joined by his wife the Duchess of Sussex Meghan Markle on the trip as they mark one year to go until the 2025 Invictus Games, which will see the introduction of winter sports for the first time. Addressing the crowd, a moved and visibly emotional Harry told the crowd that the trip had been "incredible" as he added that everyone involved 'inspire him and Meghan every single day'.

The royal couple appeared at a Wheelchair Curling demonstration at Hillcrest Community Centre as part of he One Year to Go activities for the Invictus Games Vancouver Whistler 2025. Once the demonstration had taken place, Harry took to the ice to make an emotional speech as he asked others to 'support each other'.

Join the Mirror's SMS news service to get the biggest breaking stories delivered straight to your phone. Click here to subscribe.

READ MORE: Royal fans all saying the same thing as Prince Harry gives new bombshell interview

Image: WireImage) WireImage) Image: WireImage) WireImage)

Addressing the crowd from the ice, the Duke made an emotional speech. He said: "The last few days have been incredible. The smiles I have seen on the faces in the last few days, it proves why we do what we do and that was just for the competitors. Imagine what it will be like when friends and family get in a coach, get in a bus, and head up to Whistler. And get to spend hours or the whole day up in that beautiful mountain air.

"Every single one of you inspire me, inspire us every single day. So please continue to be there to support each other. I know how much you love to serve — in many instances, you live to serve — so we will continue to give you the opportunity to serve and to inspire people up, down the country and around the world."

Image: Canadian Press/REX/Shutterstock) Canadian Press/REX/Shutterstock)

The speech comes as the Invictus Games in 2025 will also now include winter sports as an event, with alpine skiing, snowboarding, biathlon, Nordic skiing, skeleton and wheelchair curling for the first time. The winter sports are in addition to the core Invictus sports such as sitting volleyball, swimming, wheelchair basketball and wheelchair rugby.

Dominic Reid, CEO of the Invictus Games, told PEOPLE why it was so important to include the winter sports into the sporting event as he said: "It's been quite a long time in the making, but here we are. I'm really excited about what we're going to be able to do in 2025."

The final day of the royal couple's trip comes after Prince Harry gave a bombshell interview on Good Morning America, in which he spoke about his father's health, his life with Meghan Markle and the Invictus Games.

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .