Lorraine Kelly has responded to a satire account on social media which tracks her appearances on TV after she started to take time

Lorraine Kelly has responded to a satire account on X, formerly Twitter, which tracks her appearances on television and questioned why she has been absent from her ITV show, Lorraine, on a number of Fridays.

The 64-year-old TV presenter was appearing on BBC Radio 4's Woman's Hour with host Gemma Cairney, when she was asked about X account 'Where is Lorraine?', which has been posting regularly about the Scottish star. Gemma asked her guest about her absences: "Does that mean you will be taking more time away from Lorraine?"

Image: Mike Marsland/WireImage) Mike Marsland/WireImage)

Lorraine replied that she was bemused about the amount of time some people devotes to her. She said: "The amount of space I occupy in people's heads is quite bizarre." Gemma then asked about the X account: "There is a satire account set up on X tracking your appearances on the show, it's got 10,000 followers".

Lorraine said that she was not stressing over it: "It's fine, I don't mind, I don't care. Probably would have cared before but I really don't now, it's absolutely fine. To be honest, you should never comment on things like that if you don't know what's going on in people's lives. I am having to take quite a few Fridays off because of my mum's really not well, so I can go home now and spend some more time with her, probably a bit more than I have been able to, so that's happening just now but that will change."

The ITV presenter then added: "I have been doing five days a week for 40 years so I am taking a wee bit of time off and obviously this is half-term so I am free to talk to you, which is fantastic."

The 'Where Is Lorraine?' account posted in the wake of the radio interview to say that they "respect" Lorraine and that there was never any "malice" associated with their posts. They wrote: "It feels apt to say now that of course we respect that Lorraine may need more time away to look after her mother. There is, and never has been, any malice behind this account. It is all for fun and we are happy that @reallorraine seems to understand that."

The Scottish star is very close to her mum Anne, 81, and she shared last summer that she was admitted to University Hospital Monklands in Scotland. Lorraine posted at the time: "Having spent a lot of time over the past few days with my mum in @UHMonklands hospital I’ve seen again just how kind, caring, hard working, funny and downright fabulous our NHS workers are. Thank you doesn’t begin to cover it."

Lorraine didn't say why her mum was in hospital, but Anne was diagnosed with nephrotic syndrome in February 2023, a condition that stops the kidneys functioning properly, which also saw her hospitalised.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTubeand Threads.