EastEnders is set for explosive scenes next week with a double return, one character fleeing and The Six taking action in Albert Square

EastEnders is set for dramatic episodes next week with viewers sure to be gripped to their televisions.

Spoilers for next week have revealed that fans will see two familiar faces back in Walford next week after some time offscreen. Elsewhere, The Six take action as they fear their deadly secret could be exposed.

Also in Albert Square, a struggling Denise Fox flees Walford as Albert Square launches a search party for the missing character. Here's the biggest moments ahead on EastEnders next week...

Double cast return with third teased amid DNA bombshell

EastEnders fans will see two familiar faces back in Walford next week after some time offscreen. A third return could feature in scenes too if fans are correct about an upcoming storyline. Amid two huge storylines, including the fallout to a DNA plot and a character going missing after suffering psychosis, two residents are confirmed to be featuring in new scenes.

Cindy Beale is back on the Square next week, just weeks after she fled to go and visit her daughter Cindy Jr - with her returning at a time her ex George Knight needs support after his recent DNA discovery. George recently found out the truth behind his adoption, and this week a shocking murder twist sees him finding out what really went on in his childhood.

Image: BBC/Jack Barnes/Kieron McCarron) BBC/Jack Barnes/Kieron McCarron)

George will be left struggling in the fallout after learning all about his past, and what his adoptive parents have been hiding for decades. Meanwhile, Cindy Jr had no idea her mum was alive and didn't really die in 1998, with her mum having been in witness protection the entire time right up until last year when she came back from the dead on the show.

Cindy Jr will no doubt struggle with this news given her mother seemingly died while giving birth to her, leaving her feeling guilty for much of her life. But Cindy Sr will return next week, shortly after leaving to pay a visit to her daughter - so what goes down, and could it lead to the return of Cindy Jr?

Viewers certainly think so, believing now is the time for the character to return to the show for the first time since 2015. But whether Cindy does join her mum in Walford is yet to be known, while there is a second confirmed character comeback airing next week.

Image: BBC) BBC)

Spoilers reveal that we will be seeing more of serial killer Lucas Johnson, after his surprise return in a recent episode. His ex Denise Fox went to see him in prison, as she continues to hide the events from Christmas Day from her loved ones.

Denise's mental health has spiralled and next week she flees Walford, struggling to cope with what happened. Viewers know that Denise was one of six women involved in the murder of Keanu Taylor, with them then burying his body under the floor of the café.

Denise is experiencing psychosis and after visiting Lucas recently hoping for some clarity from her killer husband, she goes to see him again next week amid her sparking concern with her loved ones. As she visits Lucas, will she end up confessing her sins?

The Six take action as struggling Denise Fox flees Walford

EastEnders is set for dramatic scenes next week when Denise Fox flees Walford as she continues to struggle following Keanu Taylor's death.

Soap fans will recall that over the festive period, The Six - made up of Denise, Stacey Slater, Suki Panesar, Linda Carter, Sharon Watts and Kathy Beale - grouped together to cover up a murder.

During the explosive episode, Suki's abusive husband Nish Panesar tried to stop her from leaving him for lover Eve Unwin as he got aggressive. The Six stepped in, where Denise whacked him over the head with a Champagne bottle.

Image: BBC/Jack Barnes/Kieron McCarron) BBC/Jack Barnes/Kieron McCarron)

After thinking he was dead, he was able to be revived but during the dramatic scenes, Sharon's jilted groom Keanu showed up and attempted to take her son, Albie, where he started strangling Sharon to which Linda stabbed him.

So far, The Six have covered up the murder by hiding Keanu's body in the abandoned café following the fire, pretending Keanu attacked Nish before going on the run. However, while the women attempt to stay strong, Denise has been struggling after her necklace, with her initial D, was accidentally buried with Keanu's body with the character unable to retrieve the vital piece of evidence.

In recent scenes, Denise has left her family and the other women concerned with her behaviour as she struggles to cope in the Christmas Day aftermath. Next week will see things go from bad to worse when Denise starts having hallucinations of Keanu, which she believes are real.

Later, Denise finally begins to talk about what she's seeing and hearing, telling Stacey, who recognises the signs that she is experiencing psychosis and tries to convince Denise to go to see a doctor. Meanwhile, Ricky is convinced that Denise is having a breakdown when he overhears her saying strange things but Amy insists she just needs to sleep.

However, later, Denise rushes out of the back door and hides in a bush. Stacey is quick to get Denise inside, where Yolande and Pastor Clayton arrive to give Denise counsel. Meanwhile, Stacey insists to the others that Denise needs to see a psychiatrist but at the same time, Denise has gone to see Lucas as she believes he's the only person who can help her.

Image: BBC/Jack Barnes/Kieron McCarron) BBC/Jack Barnes/Kieron McCarron)

Later, Denise arrives home in an agitated state, which leaves both Amy and Ricky frightened. Denise insists she must get far away to keep them safe and grabs the car keys. Amy convinces Denise to let her go with her as the duo drive off. Meanwhile, back at home, a worried Ricky desperately tries to reach Jack.

Later in the night, Denise and Amy drive at high speed through a wooded area until Denise stops the car and rushes off into the night, which leaves a worried Amy distraught. Meanwhile, over at the Queen Vic, word reaches the punters that Denise is missing as they start a search party.

It's not long until Chelsea Fox and Johnny Carter have a tense conversation about Denise, which leaves Linda rattled as Chelsea questions her. Meanwhile, Suki is determined she's going to find a way out of this, no matter what happens.

Thinking up solutions if Denise is found, Suki insists to Stacey that the women need to rally around Denise and look after her in shifts if that’s what it takes to protect their deadly secret.

EastEnders airs Mondays to Thursdays at 7:30pm on BBC One and BBC iPlayer.* Follow Mirror Celebs and TV on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .