The Government's Warm Home Discount scheme gives households claiming certain benefits the £150 discount on their electricity bills between October and March each year

Households eligible for this year's Warm Home Discount don't have long left to claim the £150 energy discount.

The Government's Warm Home Discount scheme gives households claiming certain benefits the £150 discount on their electricity bills between October and March each year. The majority of people eligible will get the discount automatically applied by their supplier or if you are a prepay meter customer you are sent a top up voucher. Smart prepayments will also have it applied automatically.

Those eligible should have received a letter telling them when the discount would be applied however if you have not received one yet - and believe you are eligible - then you will need to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) soon. DWP guidance says: "If you do not get a letter and you think you’re eligible, you must contact the Warm Home Discount Scheme before February 29, 2024."

You can contact the Warm Home Discount Scheme through the helpline on 0800 030 9322 or write a letter to: 110552 Warm Home Discount Scheme, PO Box 26965, Glasgow, G1 9BW.

Who is eligible for the Warm Home Discount?

The £150 electricity discount is automatically applied if you, or your partner, receive the Guarantee Credit portion of the DWP's Pension Credit - this is known as "core group one" in England and Wales and "core group" in Scotland.

You may also automatically get the Warm Home Discount if you are on a low income, claiming certain benefits and have high energy costs. This is known as being in the "core group two" if you live in England and Wales. If you live in Scotland and you claim certain benefits, you will likely need to apply.

The qualifying means-tested benefits include:

Income related Employment and Support Allowance (ESA)

Income based Jobseeker’s Allowance (JSA)

Income Support

Universal Credit

Housing benefit

Child Tax Credits and Working Tax Credits

Pension Credit Savings Credit (PCSC)

To be eligible for this winter's payment, you will need to have been claiming a qualifying benefit on August 13.