Meghan Markle and Prince Harry were seen hanging out with the King of Christmas, Michael Bublé at the Invictus Games Vancouver Whistler in Canada. Michael and Meghan in 2015

Meghan Markle 's group of friends just keeps getting bigger and bigger.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have been on a three-day trip to mark a year until next year's Invictus Games Vancouver Whistler. Harry was seen beaming next to Meghan's friend and the King of Christmas, Michael Bublé, when trying out wheelchair curling. Prince Harry was wearing a dark grey vest over a light grey sweatshirt and black jeans. Michael was seen in all black, while Meghan was wearing a tan colored peacoat and black pants. Meghan and Michael were seen speaking to one another but how do they know each other and for how long?

Follow Mirror Celebs onTikTok,Snapchat,Instagram,Twitter,Facebook,YouTube andThreads.

READ MORE: Harry beams with pal Michael Buble as they try wheelchair curling while Meghan watches on in glee

Image: Canadian Press/REX/Shutterstock) Canadian Press/REX/Shutterstock)

According Meghan's now closed blog, The Tig, she met the singer back in November 2015 in Canada during a dinner party hosted by her best friend Jessica Mulroney. She wrote: "his proud papa, husband to the lovely Luisana Lopilato, and certifiably delightful guy, makes for one hell of a dinner companion.". She continued: "But there’s this other thing about him that is perhaps worth mentioning. Oh right. He sings."

She shared a Christmas playlist that Michael also made for her. The songs on the playlist consisted of hits like I'll Be Home For Christmas by Bing Crosby, Jingle Bells, White Christmas, Blue Christmas by Elvis Presely, Christmas (Baby Please Come Home) by Darlene Love and Cold December Night by the King of Christmas himself. Since he included his own song he wrote: "I wrote it. Sorry. Had to add one of my own. Please download it 200,000 times."

Image: Canadian Press/REX/Shutterstock) Canadian Press/REX/Shutterstock)

Harry and Meghan were alongside veterans from the Canadian Armed Forces and their families and other guests as they participated in a demonstration of the sport at Hillcrest Community Centre. Harry has been seen whizzing down the slopes on adaptive skis, while Meghan all smiles and taking pictures. He also tried out skeleton-bobsledding on the skeleton track and Meghan was on the sidelines cheering him on. The couple spent an evening touring the Squamish Lil’wat Cultural Centre with Youth Ambassadors, Chief Nelson and Wilson Williams during their jam-packed itinerary.

Many did not think Harry was going to make the event after the news broke out that his father, King Charles III, was diagnosed with cancer. When asked in an interview on Good Morning America about his visit, he said it was to stay between the two.