Adele has insisted that concert bosses build more stages in the huge open air arena that will host her German residency so that she can perform for closer to all her fans

Adele has demanded that concert bosses build her dozens of extra stages for her upcoming German residency, so that she can reach all her fans in the purpose-built arena.

The 35-year-old Grammy and Brit Awards winning artist wants to be able to perform in all the corners of the open-air arena, based at Munich Messe, when she arrives for a series of gigs in August, with fans complaining about the eye-watering ticket prices to see their pop idol.

The singer's desire to perform in all areas during the show could mean that she covers five miles as she walks to the various stages around the stadium, as she looks to recreate the intimacy of her Las Vegas shows in the 80,000 holding arena. The Vegas residency at Caesars Palace has changed Adele's view on performing live, no longer finding herself wracked with nerves before a show.

Image: PR PIC) PR PIC)

The singer is now upping the intensity of her gym workouts, to ensure she is fit enough to tackle the Munich residency and she has posted a message about the Summer shows. Adele said about the German concerts: 'Vegas will forever hold the most special place in my heart. I've loved it. But anyway, I want to be able to connect with the crowd (in Munich). I was like, build me a stage out in the crowd.

"And they were like, 'well, we can't get you there unless you walk there on a stage. I'm obviously exaggerating a little bit, but I think I'll probably get a good four or five miles in a night walking. So I really need to get my stamina up. So I'm working out twice a day. All I have been doing is that I'm training to be an athlete because I have some shows in the summer, I'm playing 10 nights in Munich."

Adele continued: "I'm very excited and it's a whole new show and it is such a big audience, which I've done before and always felt a little bit disassociated, coz I am like how is it possible there's a hundred thousand people here to see one person. That doesn't make any sense. And it always felt so far away. This show has absolutely just made me not scared of performing in any capacity anymore. So I'm excited about this show.' And so that's really all I've been doing."

The singer has overcome crippling stage fright, which led her to cancel her initial Vegas residency just hours before the opening night but now is full of confidence heading to Germany. Speaking about that time, Adele said: "The safety that this room has given me within myself and with my music has changed my life forever. I am so glad. Some people thought that I was just going to keep extending, but this really is the end.

"Every time I say that, I get so emotional because this has honestly been the highlight of my week for two years and after the way that it first started or didn't start, rather, that was one of the lowest I think I've ever been in terms of my career and stuff like that.

"And I wasn't sure if it would be bittersweet rather than just sweet. And it's been f***ing sweet. So absolutely lovely, and I'm genuinely going to miss it. I love the routine it's given me. I have loved getting to know you and for a very long time I was very, very scared of not just the big crowd, just crowds in general because I've sort of touched on the whole show. It's not very normal, but it's also very normal for it to not film anymore. So I feel way more settled in that now."

The only real downside to the Munich gigs have been the fans slamming the "ridiculous" ticket prices which, on average, come in at €140 (£120) with the highest priced tickets, for those fans wanting to sit in the front row, come in at a whopping €700 (£598).

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok , Snapchat , Instagram , Twitter , Facebook , YouTube and Threads .