Princess Eugenie and Jack Brooksbank's wedding was broadcast live on ITV's This Morning just months after Prince Harry and Meghan Markle tied the knot in the same chapel

Prince Andrew made an awkward comment about his nephew Prince Harry ahead of Princess Eugenie's wedding.

When Prince Harry married Meghan Markle in 2018, it wasn't the only Royal wedding of the year. Just five months after Harry's ceremony, his cousin Princess Eugenie wed her now-husband Jack Brooksbank, with the service also taking place at St George's Chapel in Windsor Castle.

Both weddings were broadcast live on TV with Eugenie's nuptials being shown on ITV show This Morning. Before the big day, Eugenie's dad Prince Andrew gave an interview on This Morning and talked about how his daughter's wedding would be different from his nephew Harry's.

But viewers accused him of making an awkward comment when it came to the number of guests invited to both ceremonies after Eugenie and Jack invited 850 guests compared to Harry and Meghan's 600.

Andrew - who celebrates his 64th birthday today - said: "It will NOT be the same as the previous one that was held in May. This is not a public wedding, this is meant to be a family wedding" There'll be a few more people than most people have. There are a few more than Harry had, but that's just the nature of Eugenie and Jack - they've got so many friends that they need a church of that size to fit them all in."

Image: PA) PA)

At the time, one Twitter user said of the weddings: "So seems like a competition for him."

Love the royals? Sign up for the Mirror's daily newsletter to get all the latest news on the Queen, Charles, Kate, Wills, Meghan, Harry and the rest of The Firm.Click here to sign up.

One person teased: "Throwing some shade there Duke" and another added: "Hum! So Harry have not got so many friends." Someone else mentioned he was "throwing shade all over the place".

But Eugenie's wedding was unforgettable, with famous people coming, a beautiful dress for the bride, and guests who didn't follow the rules about not posting on social media.

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

The bride and groom looked super happy, smiling all through the day that everyone could see. But a person who can read lips said Eugenie wasn't totally happy about something her husband did at the wedding.

When they were sitting together in St George's Chapel, listening to people talk, Eugenie said to her husband in a fun way: "Why aren't you holding my hand?"

The lip reader also found out that Eugenie started their careful kisses outside the church, telling her husband "let's kiss" for the photos.