The BAFTA 2024 awards ceremony has now ended and the big winners included Oppenheimer and Poor Things, with a number of big names taking home one of the coveted honours

BAFTAs 2024 winners list in full as Oppenheimer leads the way with seven gongs

The 2024 BAFTA Film Awards has handed out all its awards this evening - with Oppenheimer leading the way.

This year, David Tennant is hosting proceedings from the Royal Festival Hall, taking over from Alison Hammond and Richard E. Grant, who had hosted last year, whilst there will be performances from Sophie Ellis-Bextor and Hannah Waddingham.

Film stars including Cillian Murphy and Barry Keoghan appeared on the red carpet tonight, with both of them nominated in the Best Actor category for their roles in Oppenheimer and Saltburn. The Prince of Wales, who is president of BAFTA, was also seen arriving at the event, which is his first high-profile royal engagement since his wife, the Princess of Wales, underwent her operation.

Image: Melinda Sue Gordon) Melinda Sue Gordon)

Tonight, the stars of stage and screen were there to celebrate the awards, with nominations in the biggest categories including Fantasia Barrino, The Color Purple; Sandra Hüller, Anatomy of a Fall; Carey Mulligan, Maestro; Vivian Oparah, Rye Lane; Margot Robbie, Barbie; and Emma Stone, Poor Things in the Best Leading Actress category, whilst Bradley Cooper, Maestro; Colman Domingo, Rustin; Paul Giamatti, The Holdovers; Keoghan, Saltburn; Cillian Murphy, Oppenheimer; and Teo Yoo, Past Lives were all up in the Best Leading Actor category. Anatomy of a Fall, The Holdovers, Killers of the Flower Moon, Oppenheimer and Poor Things are up for Best Film.

Oppenheimer picked up seven gongs in total including Best Director for Christopher Nolan, who thanked everyone for backing something so dark. When Cillian collected his Best Leading Actor trophy, he described Christopher Nolan and Emma Thomas as the "most dynamic, kindest producer-director partnership in Hollywood."

Should Barbie have bagged a BAFTA? Vote in our poll HERE to have your say.

Robert Downey Jr won the Best Supporting Actor prize for his role as Lewis Strauss, head of the Atomic Energy Commission, whilst there were also awards for cinematography, score and editing. As they collected the Best Film award from Michael J Fox, Emma Thomas said of her husband: "He is inspired and inspiring. He is brilliant, often infuriating, he is always right."

Here's the list of winners in full as the awards are handed out to the biggest movies of the last 12 months.

Original screenplay - Anatomy of a Fall

Special visual effects - Poor Things

Animated film - The Boy and the Heron

Outstanding debut by a British writer, director or producer - Earth Mama

Film not in the English language - The Zone of Interest

Best casting - The Holdovers

Best editing - Oppenheimer

Best cinematography - Oppenheimer

Adapted screenplay - American Fiction

Best supporting actor - Robert Downey Jr, Oppenheimer

Best supporting actress - Da'Vine Joy Randolph, The Holdovers

Best documentary -20 Days In Mariupol

Best original score - Oppenheimer

Best sound - The Zone of Interest

Best production design - Poor Things

Outstanding British Contribution to Cinema - June Givanni

Best British short film - Jellyfish and Lobster

Best short animation - Crab Day

Outstanding British film - The Zone of Interest

Best costume design - Poor Things

Best hair and make-up - Poor Things

Best director - Christopher Nolan for Oppenheimer

Bafta fellowship - Samantha Morton

Rising star award - Mia McKenna-Bruce

Best actor - Cillian Murphy for Oppenheimer

Best actress - Emma Stone for Poor Things

Best film - Oppenheimer