William, Prince of Wales, attended the 77th British Academy Film Awards in London on Sunday night without his wife, Catherine, Princess of Wales, who is still recovering from surgery she received last month

William, Prince of Wales admitted he has not watched Barbie and has had ‘other things’ on his mind as he attended the 2024 BAFTAs amid his family’s health battles.

In recent weeks, the Royal Family has shared the shock news that Catherine, Princess of Wales, has undergone surgery for a medical condition - which took her out of royal work from January until after Easter. King Charles III concerned fans last month when it was revealed he had also undergone surgery to treat an issue with his prostate. More concerning, he shared the news earlier this month that during his prostate treatment, doctors discovered he had a form of cancer, which he is now being treated to.

On Sunday night, the 77th British Academy Film Awards kicked off in London - with a string of A List stars in attendance. The 41-year-old Prince of Wales was at the event in his official capacity as President of BAFTA - a title he has held since 2010. Every year, Prince William and his wife Kate attend the glitzy event - however the 42-year-old Princess of Wales was not at the 2024 ceremony as she is still recovering from surgery.

Image: PA) PA) Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

Prince William looked dashing as he arrived for the ceremony without his wife. He looked smart in a deep navy blue velvet suit and bow tie. According to the MailOnline, film fans who were watching celebrities arrive at the ceremony were delighted to have an encounter with the Prince.

They report he was overheard telling the crowds that he was sad not to have watched as many of the nominated films as he would have liked as he has had: “other things on my mind”. He also said: “I am sorry Catherine's not here, she does love the BAFTAs”. They report that he told the film fans that he had watched Oppenheimer - but confessed: “I haven't seen Barbie yet.”

Last month, a statement from Kensington Palace explained that Princess Kate had responded well to treatment for an undisclosed health issue. The statement said: "The Princess of Wales has returned home to Windsor to continue her recovery from surgery. She is making good progress.

“The Prince and Princess wish to say a huge thank you to the entire team at The London Clinic, especially the dedicated nursing staff, for the care they have provided. The Wales family continues to be grateful for the well wishes they have received from around the world."

Should Barbie have bagged a BAFTA? Vote in our poll HERE to have your say.

Earlier this month, King Charles’ cancer battle was shared by Buckingham Palace. A statement read: “During The King’s recent hospital procedure for benign prostate enlargement, a separate issue of concern was noted. Subsequent diagnostic tests have identified a form of cancer. His Majesty has today commenced a schedule of regular treatments, during which time he has been advised by doctors to postpone public-facing duties. Throughout this period, His Majesty will continue to undertake State business and official paperwork as usual.

“The King is grateful to his medical team for their swift intervention, which was made possible thanks to his recent hospital procedure. He remains wholly positive about his treatment and looks forward to returning to full public duty as soon as possible. His Majesty has chosen to share his diagnosis to prevent speculation and in the hope it may assist public understanding for all those around the world who are affected by cancer.”

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTubeand Threads.