Strictly Come Dancing star Giovanni Pernice enjoyed a handful of dates with boxing ring girl Layla Brown, 27, before moving on just days later with her doppelganger, Molly Brown, 24

Strictly Come Dancing Giovanni Pernice has proved that he's got a specific type when it comes to the ladies.

The professional dancer, 33, was spotted on a string dates with boxing ring girl Layla Brown, 27, last month, and just a few short weeks later he is reportedly now seeing lookalike Molly Brown, 24, after Layla decided to call time on their short-lived romance.

Friends of Layla have claimed that the blonde bombshell had a secret fling with the Italian dancer earlier this year after they connected online, but the pair went their separate ways when Layla decided to call things off. However, she was left stunned after hearing that Giovanni had moved on so quickly with Molly - who looks just like her.

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images) Image: mollybrownxox/Instagram) mollybrownxox/Instagram)

"Giovanni had a few dates with Layla after he messaged her and started chatting her up. They had fun together but she ended it and he moved on," a source told the Sun. However, just a week later, Giovanni sparked a romance with fellow model Molly. The source added: "Layla was shocked to see him with Molly because of how alike they look. It was over with Gio before he moved on with Molly but he certainly has a type."

Giovanni, who won Strictly in 2021 with EastEnders actress Rose Ayling-Ellis, reportedly first reached out to Layla on Instagram in September last year. He was keen to take her out, but she wasn't initially interested. However, his charm won her over and they went on a date a few months later. Giovanni even met her friends just days before the pair broke up.

"Giovanni seemed to be really into Layla. She's absolutely gorgeous so you can see why he was instantly attracted to her when he saw her. Things didn't work out in the end and then Giovanni moved on with Molly," the source added.

Layla, from Leicester, works as a model for Memo Management, which provides ring girls for boxing events.

Image: laylashellby_/Instagram) laylashellby_/Instagram)

Last week, it was revealed that Giovanni and Molly were keeping their romance under wraps by not following each other on Instagram. However, they have since decided to scrap the rules and are now following each other on the popular social media platform.

In the past, Strictly Come Dancing star Giovanni has been linked with famous faces before, like Pussycat Dolls star Ashley Roberts, 42, and Love Island's Maura Higgins.

The Mirror has approached to Giovanni's representatives for comment on this story.

Follow Mirror Celebs on TikTok,Snapchat,Instagram,Twitter,Facebook,YouTubeandThreads.