The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have ended their Canada trip with the One Year to Go Dinner at Vancouver Convention Center as they finish celebrating 12 months to go until the 2025 Invictus Games

Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have wrapped up their trip to Canada for the Invictus Games Countdown with a lush banquet and were even serenaded by Michael Bublé.

The couple have been celebrating One Year To Go until the 2025 sporting event, and have been making public appearances in Vancouver as preparation is firmly underway. Now that their three-day trip has wrapped, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex have marked the end of their celebrations with a lavish formal evening which saw performances from singer Michael as well as meeting with Canadian senior officials.

Meghan stood proudly by her husband's side as she wore an off-the-shoulder green dress and wore her dark hair slicked back into a ponytail. Prince Harry wore a black suit for the formal event, which took place at the Vancouver Convention Center on Friday.

READ MORE: Prince Harry 'will have to surrender Sussex title' as he tries to become 'US royalty'

Image: AP) AP)

The night saw singer Michael perform a song written with Paul Anka to the melody of 'My Way'. The Canadian crooner spoke to the audience at the evening do as he shared how happy he was that, "we can show Harry and Meghan how beautiful this place is." The event also saw the Duke and Duchess of Sussex gifted a thoughtful present of blankets for their children Archie and Lilibet from Johnna Sparrow, an Indigenous advisor for the Games and sister of Chief Wayne Sparrow of the Musqueam Indian Band.

He even called Harry a "visionary" in one line. "Who knew, dreams can come true, when life tells you, you’re far from finished/ Nothing tames, Invictus Games, you play them your way/ One man, life-changing plan, he does all he can, he’s a visionary." He also gave a nod to King Charles' cancer diagnosis.

Image: AP) AP)

Speaking at the event, Prince Harry highlighted that 2014 marks a decade since the first Invictus Games began. He said: "When I am with the Invictus community surrounded by so many brave men and women who have served their countries with distinction, I feel humbled and at home.

"This year will mark ten years of the Invictus Games. The past decade has been a testament to the power of resilience and the unbreakable spirit you all exemplify. And boy have we had fun on the way! From this trip, I am happy to report the air is thick with excitement, and the best part is, we’re just getting started."

He then added: "The Invictus Games are not just a competition; they’re a way of life, a celebration of the human spirit."

The banquet comes just a day after the Duke made an emotional speech during his final appearance of their three-day Canada trip. He spoke at a wheelchair curling demonstration as he told the crowds: "The last few days have been incredible. The smiles I have seen on the faces in the last few days, it proves why we do what we do and that was just for the competitors. Imagine what it will be like when friends and family get in a coach, get in a bus, and head up to Whistler. And get to spend hours or the whole day up in that beautiful mountain air.

Image: AP) AP)

"Every single one of you inspire me, inspire us every single day. So please continue to be there to support each other. I know how much you love to serve — in many instances, you live to serve — so we will continue to give you the opportunity to serve and to inspire people up, down the country and around the world."

Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook All the latest news, showbiz, lifestyle and sports updates, brought to you by our dedicated American team. Follow the Mirror US News page on Facebook to make sure you're not missing out.

* Follow Mirror Celebs on Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTubeand Threads.