The New York State man claims he had a severe allergic reaction after ordering a cheese-less McDonald's Big Mac through Door Dash but the order arrived cheesy. He says he took himself to hospital in an Uber

Man 'no longer trusts' McDonald's after claiming cheese on Big Mac almost killed him

A man has launched a lawsuit against with claims a slice of cheese on his Big Mac almost killed him.

Charles Olsen says he no longer trusts McDonald's after he allegedly had an anaphylaxis reaction in February 2021 from biting into a burger which was cheesy despite his requests for no cheese.

The New York State man, who has a severe milk allergy, says he still eats at McDonald's but will order only a plain burger now.

Mr Olsen told the New York Post: “I have been back to McDonalds. But I no longer trust McDonald’s to follow any order specifics such as not including cheese."

According to the lawsuit, he was rushed to hospital after biting the burger. The fateful night started out normally with him and a few friends ordering take out from one of their go-to places.

Read more: Inside abandoned 1980s McDonald's branch that still has dirty grills and drinks machine

Image: Getty Images) Getty Images)

He made his regular order and claimed he made his usual request of "No Cheese" through Door Dash as he's done "many times" before. He even checked the burger to make sure there were no mistakes. The lawsuit documents Olsen saying: “When I got my food, I opened the burger, and it looked like it always did when I ordered it. I didn’t see any cheese melting over the sides. I assumed it was like every other time I had eaten there before.”

But he quickly realised he was getting an allergic reaction. He said: “I was just frustrated that McDonalds got the order wrong. But as my symptoms worsened, I started to worry, and realised how bad it was.

“When I felt my throat close up and it became difficult to breathe, I actually thought I might not make it.”

The lawsuit includes what appears to be a screenshot of the order he placed, where the request of 'no cheese' can be seen.

For all the latest news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US

Image: DDP/AFP via Getty Images) DDP/AFP via Getty Images)

Mr Olsen rushed to hospital with his girlfriend in an Uber, fearing an ambulance would take too long. He claims he was given a cocktail of drugs before being intubated.

Mr Olsen has said it's since ruined his favourite order. He said: “Now I just order their fries and a plain burger, with nothing on it. Just the patty and bun. I just can’t take the risk that it’ll happen again.”

He claims he still avoids eating at most restaurants, three years after the incident.

His legal team claims the McDonald's branch has since closed down.

Mirror has reached out to McDonald's for comment but a previous statement from the owner of the franchise claims the complaint was being taken “seriously."

Olsen’s girlfriend, Alexandra DiBenedetto, told The Post the ordeal was “terrifying.” She said: “Having to watch him struggle the way he did was absolutely awful, and it just kept getting scarier as the reaction progressed."