Back To The Future actor Michael J Fox was a surprise guest at the 77th annual British Academy Film and TV Awards as he was selected to give out the award for Best Film

Michael J Fox had BAFTAs viewers in tears as he made a surprise appearance on stage in a wheelchair

The legendary actor who played Marty McFly in Back To The Future was there to present the award for Best Film. He arrived on the stage in a wheelchair, and received a standing ovation from other celebrities in the Royal Festival Hall in London.

Michael has been living with Parkinson's disease, with him being open about his condition and how it affected him. Fans were amazed when he stood up from his wheelchair to speak at the microphone, holding onto the lectern for balance.

Image: Getty Images for BAFTA) Getty Images for BAFTA) Image: Getty Images for BAFTA) Getty Images for BAFTA)

The audience, filled with stars like Robert Downey Jr and Florence Pugh, gave him a standing ovation. As he introduced the nominees, he shared: "No matter who you are or where you're from, these films will change your day. The reason they say movies are magic is movies can change your day, they can change your outlook and sometimes even change your life."

After the nominees were shown, it was announced that Christopher Nolan's movie Oppenheimer had won the top prize and Christopher Nolan and Emma Thomas made their way to the stage alongside some of the film's stars including Cillian Murphy.

Taking to social media, one fan wrote: "Crying at Michael J Fox..glad he refuses to hide #BAFTAs," as a second added: "Seeing Michael J. Fox at @BAFTA awards. Holy moly, that brought me to tears. What an inspiring man. #BAFTAs." A third shared: "What an icon and inspiration Michael J Fox is. Nobody quite like it and so deserving of that standing ovation #BAFTAs.

"I'm crying. Michael J Fox #BAFTAs," a fourth wrote, with a fifth adding: "Words can't express how much I heart this guy! I heart you Michael J Fox, heck the whole world hearts you!!! A total king and legend in the same breath."

Michael previously admitted he finds it "very difficult" and a "struggle" not being able to act.

"It’s a struggle. It’s very difficult. I get sick of talking about me. I know me too well. And I never know what I’m presenting to people, because it’s not necessarily what I’m feeling. You say to people: whatever you’ve seen me doing, I’m actually doing something else. But it’s not anyone else’s responsibility to second-guess how I’m feeling. I don’t wanna make other people correct their paths or rearrange their position to deal with whoever I am at the moment," he explained of how his diagnosis affects him.

*Follow Mirror Celebs and TV on TikTok, Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Threads.