The 76th British Academy Film Awards took place on Sunday night, with a string of historic firsts as Oppenheimer trounced Barbie when it came to the awards being handed out

The 2024 Bafta film awards was a night of firsts for the awards on Sunday.

Robert Downey Jr broke records by having the longest gap between wins for an actor. He won best supporting actor for his role in Oppenheimer, 31 years after his last win in 1993 for Chaplin. This beat the previous record set by Sir Anthony Hopkins who had a 27-year gap between his wins.

The award for best animation went to The Boy And The Heron, marking the first time a Japanese film has won this category. British filmmaker Christopher Nolan finally won a Bafta on his third attempt, being named best director for Oppenheimer. Cillian Murphy, who played J Robert Oppenheimer in the film, was named best actor, becoming the first Irish winner of this award.

Image: PA Wire/PA Images) PA Wire/PA Images) Image: PA Wire/PA Images) PA Wire/PA Images)

Da'Vine Joy Randolph was the only non-white winner in the acting categories, winning best supporting actress for her role in The Holdovers. This win boosts the reputation of this category as the most diverse of all the acting Baftas, with four out of the last 10 winners being from an ethnic minority background.

However, we're still waiting for the first ever non-white winner of the Bafta for best actress. Out of all the acting categories at the awards, it's the only one that has never been won by someone from an ethnic minority background. This year, six people were nominated in this category, two of whom were non-white: Fantasia Barrino (for The Color Purple) and Vivian Oparah (Rye Lane). But the award went to Emma Stone for her performance in Poor Things.

Should Barbie have bagged a BAFTA? Vote in our poll HERE to have your say.

Another chance for a historic moment was missed with the award for best editing, where Thelma Schoonmaker could have become the first person to win it three times. She was nominated this year for Killers Of The Flower Moon, having previously won for Raging Bull in 1982 and Goodfellas in 1991, both films directed by her long-time collaborator Martin Scorsese. The award instead went to fellow American editor Susan Shopmaker, for her work on The Holdovers.

Oppenheimer's total number of Bafta wins, seven, was just two short of matching the all-time record of nine, set by Butch Cassidy And The Sundance Kid in 1971. Both Oppenheimer (13 nominations) and Poor Things (11) had a chance to equal or beat this record, while Killers Of The Flower Moon (nine nominations) and The Zone Of Interest (nine) also had a chance to match it. Sadly, all the films fell short of expectations. Oppenheimer bagged seven awards, Poor Things got five, The Zone Of Interest received three, and Killers Of The Flower Moon didn't win any.