Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

The granddaughter of infamous Mexican drug lord Joaquín 'El Chapo' Guzmán has been spotted busking in the streets of London.

Frida Sofía Guzmán Muñoz, 18, is the daughter of Edgar Guzmán López, one of El Chapo's sons who was killed in a cartel shootout in Culiacan, Sinaloa, in 2008.

Frida shot to fame when she was a finalist on a Mexican TV talent show aged just 16. She went on to launch a singing career off the back of that success and boasts more than 108,000 followers on Instagram.

READ MORE: El Chapo's beauty queen wife 'could pen bombshell book spilling cartel secrets'

Click for more of the latest updates regarding jailed Sinaloa Cartel boss El Chapo.

(Image: Frida Guzmán)

She appears to currently be travelling in Europe, with a snap shared on her social media yesterday (Sunday, February 18) showing her at Disneyland Paris. In other posts in recent weeks she has appeared at the Louvre, Buckingham Palace, the Tower of London and Loch Ness.

In a post last week she appeared in Leicester Square joining a busker, with the pair belting out Shallow, a song originally performed by Bradley Cooper and Lady Gaga in hit movie A Star Is Born. She wrote in the caption of the video: "My dream of singing in the streets of London... goal accomplished."

(Image: Frida Guzmán)

Her mum Frida Chávez - who is now married to Mexican boxing legend Julio César Chávez Jr - commented below the clip: "How I love to hear you sing my love."

Frida's grandfather El Chapo, once the leader of the Sinaloa Cartel, remains caged for life in the Florence Supermax prison in Colorado, US.

Authorities are still hunting for her uncles, know collectively as Los Chapitos. They stand accused of flooding the US with deadly fentanyl, contributing to spirally overdose deaths, among a raft of other cartel-related crimes.

(Image: Bloomberg via Getty Images)

Ovidio Guzmán López was arrested in January last year and is in US custody. Iván Archivaldo Guzmán Salazar, Jesús Alfredo Guzmán Salazar and Joaquín Guzmán López remain at large.

For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.