Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

For the latest from the pitch sign up for our football newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

For the latest from the pitch sign up for our football newsletter

Any tensions between Gabby Agbonlahor and Gary Neville don't look likely to simmer just yet.

That's after the former Aston Villa star tripled down on previous comments that he didn't find another ex-Manchester United defender, Nemanja Vidic, difficult to play against. It was back in November that Agbonlahor left both Vidic and Neville out of his all-time Premier League XI, then later called the Serb "the most overrated centre-back" in English football history.

But Neville took umbrage to those comments in a spirited defence of his team-mate (and no doubt his own career). Speaking to fellow Sky pundits Jamie Carragher, Roy Keane and Ian Wright, the former England regular said: “A guy who’s played against Man United 21 times and won once and f*****g shouts his mouth off in an interview.”

READ MORE: Rasmus Hojlund scores after 36 seconds vs Luton as Man Utd star breaks record

READ MORE: Three things Erik ten Hag got right and wrong as nervy Man Utd edge past Luton

This article contains affiliate links, we will receive a commission on any sales we generate from it. Learn more Watch football, F1, golf, tennis, cricket and more Get all the sport you could ever ask for Sky Sports is bringing you 500 live football games to watch, as well access to Cricket, Golf, F1, Boxing, NFL, NBA and more across eight dedicated channels. Sky Sports is the only way to watch all the action this year. £22 a month Sky Get it here

And now Agbonlahor has reopened the back-and-forth by insisting he simply didn't find it all that tough to get the better of Vidic. Even if Neville's comments regarding the disparity between their records against one another may be true.

“When I said about Vidic, that’s my opinion,” said the ex-Villa forward during a recent appearance on talkSPORT. “Nemanja Vidic was a top defender but not when I played against him. There’ll be clips where [Fernando] Torres, [Didier] Drogba and I had him on a bagel.

What do you make of the feud between the pair? Let us know in the comments section below.

(Image: TheOverlap/Youtube)

“Certain defenders you didn’t find it tough against. I said in my opinion, I didn’t find it tough playing against him [Vidic]. He was very aggressive, so I’d spin him in behind. He wasn’t quick so I’d be able to turn him. You saw the penalty in the [2010 League Cup] final he gave away as well."

Some may baulk at the prospect of Agbonlahor mentioning himself in the same sentence as greats like Torres and Drogba. It's also worth mentioning Agbonlahor is five years younger than Vidic, meaning he was on the rise when the ex-United general was in his declining years.

Join the Daily Star's WhatsApp for the sexiest headlines, showbiz gossip and lots more The Daily Star is now on WhatsApp and we want you to join us! Through the app, we'll send you the sassiest showbiz stories, some naught headline and a seismic smattering of aliens...along with the latest breaking news of course. To join our community, all you have to do to join is click on this link, select 'Join Chat' and you're in! No one will be able to see who has sign up and no one can send messages except for the Daily Star team. We also treat our community members to competitions, special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don’t like our community, you can check out any time you like. To leave our community click on the name at the top of your screen and choose Exit group. If you’re curious, you can read our Privacy Notice. CLICK HERE TO JOIN

The Birmingham native went on to list John Terry, Vincent Kompany, Rio Ferdinand and Ledley King as some of those central defenders he did struggle against in his day. And he did pull out the receipt for one successful day at the Theatre of Dreams that his punditry nemesis failed to mention.

(Image: Manchester United via Getty Images)

“It might have upset Gary Neville but I did get the winner at Old Trafford in a 1-0 win," he continued. “He can say 21 games and won once but it's more about your personal experience like playing against Gary Neville – I didn’t think he was very good.

“But that was the latter part of his career. Maybe when he was younger he was better but the Gary Neville I played against, it was easy. We targeted his side because he was slow on the ball and slow getting back in.

“Look at the game when he retired against West Brom where he had a shocker. It was because he was older so it was easier to play against him but during his younger years, of course, he was a top player even though [David] Beckham carried him on that right-hand side.