Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Super Mario returns with a remake of this classic Donkey Kong themed joint puzzle game for the Switch.

The original 2004 title was a hit on the Game Boy Advanced and dubbed a spiritual successor to the 1994 legend Donkey Kong on Game Boy.

Nintendo have lovingly given the GBA game a colourful new makeover to bring it up to modern visual standards.

And it looks amazing, fitting seamlessly in with recent Mario titles like Wonder and Super Mario Bros.

The story is simple enough, the age-old rivalry between the plumber and his monkey foe takes a turn for the worse after naughty Donkey raids a factory full of the hot new Mini-Mario toys.

Having nabbed the lot, you are tasked as the red-hatted hero to chase after Donkey Kong and recover the toys.

That means lots of side-scrolling platform puzzle levels where you have to jump, flip and scale various heights to reach seemingly unreachable keys that will then unlock a door to the next stage, collecting missing toys along the way.

The levels ramp up in difficulty and are packed with head-scratching moments where you try to work out how to get from A to B without dying.

You get tools to help out, like a trusty hammer that bashes anything in your way for a short burst, and also you can flip onto your hands to avoid a death blow from falling objects like tossed bricks.

Baddies litter the way ahead and you have the ability to get on top of them and lift them up, then throwing evil-doers at others in your way, bashing both off screen in the process.

It’s all simple Mario fun and well-trodden fare nowadays, albeit much fresher in its original form in the naughties.

That said Nintendo has done a sterling job bringing a classic back to life for today’s audience.

The gameplay is tight and feels responsive, the graphics are on par with other big name Mario titles and the music is as lovely and bubbly as you’d expect.

It den’t quite have the finesse of Switch-specific triple-A blockbusters like Wonder and Odyssey.

But there’s enough here to warrant both a return for gamers long in the tooth enough to remember the original and newcomers who have never seen a Mario Vs Donkey Kong before.

Cute, fun, head-scratching stuff.

VERDICT 4/5