Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

BBC News viewers were left gobsmacked after one host accidentally let a huge secret slip live on air.

At the start of a recent broadcast, news anchor Annabel Tiffin was joined by weather presenter Kawser Quamer, who ended up exposing details of a surprise party for a family member. Asked what her weekend plans were, Quamer replied: “Oh, my niece’s surprise birthday party! That will be nice.”

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Kim Cattrall's forgotten Sex And The City lesbian romance and that bathtub scene

Tiffin said the gesture was “lovely” before she quickly realised Kawser’s error and quipped: “Won’t be a surprise if she’s watching this!” Quamer then jolted her hands up to her mouth in horror as it dawned on her that she could have derailed the party in front of thousands.

(Image: BBC)

A look of shock swept across her face as she exclaimed: “Oh, goodness me,” before addressing the camera and stating she’s “spoiled” the surprise. The pair descended into fits of giggles as Kawser put her finger up to her mouth and made a “shh” noise to the camera.

Tiffin then signed off to the audience as the women leaned in close to each other and laughed while the BBC News soundtrack swelled in the background. The theme tune eventually drowned out their conversation and the presenters were left in fits of giggles on the iconic red BBC sofa.

(Image: BBC)

One X, formerly known as Twitter, user posted the clip on the social media website and the person that posted the video replied underneath with a hilarious quip: “Just realised that me sharing this on Twitter means that even more people know about her niece’s party, [f*** my life].”

Others flocked to share their thoughts on the accidental reveal as one person wrote: “You can almost hear the penny drop. Bless her!”

(Image: BBC)

Someone else said “oops” as another viewer posted: “The way they ended out the clip rolling about laughing. I love this!” One fan joked that their family WhatsApp group chat will be “blowing up,” another said the clip was “brilliant,” one comment read: “I challenge anyone not to laugh,” while a fourth viewer typed: “BBC News stars are so iconic.”

However, it's since been revealed by BBC critic Scott Bryan, who originally shared the blunder on X, that the niece hasn't found out, yet. He said he had it on "good authority" and that everyone should keep it a secret.

Have you joined Threads? Follow Daily Star to keep up to date on all things showbiz here