Coronation Street's Ryan Prescott, who plays Ryan Connor, has addressed rumours that his co-star Alex Bain is leaving the soap.

Fans were surprised in December when they heard rumours that Alex, known for playing Simon Barlow for 15 years, could be leaving. Ryan said he gets why actors might need a break after being part of the soap for ages, and even suggested that Simon might return in the future.

He told The Mirror: "I heard, yeah! Which is... I think people have done 25 or 30 years and they want a little more time with their family and they've earned it, so. Hopefully they'll go on and do more of what they want to, but they'll probably be back," he said.

READ MORE: Celebrity Big Brother just weeks away as start date 'revealed' for ITV show

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

ITV hasn't officially said if Alex is leaving, but The Sun has hinted that Alex will depart from Coronation Street this summer. A source told the outlet: "Alex is sad to be leaving Coronation Street because it really is like a family - but he realises that the time is right to move on. He's very excited about what's next."

(Image: ITV)

This comes after Chris Gascoyne, who was Peter Barlow, left the soap, which Ryan mentioned made him "devastated". He told The Mirror: "I'm gutted, devastated.

"There is a bit of a void left behind especially someone like Chris Gascoyne, he's a legend and a mentor to anyone without trying to be. You just learn from him. I miss him, I love Chris."

(Image: ITV)

Ryan shared some more positive news for fans and confirmed his own return to the soap after his exit last year. He told The Mirror: "He [Ryan] should be back, I thought he was. Filming is six to eight weeks ahead of transmission so I've been back a month, and so it's soon, yeah. But sometimes they stretch it out a little bit," he told The Mirror.

(Image: ITV)

The actor also hinted at a possible reunion for Ryan and Daisy, though admitted that there was "room for disaster" within their relationship. I think he's always going to have a bond with Daisy, there's always possibilities in the future. I think when you have been through something to the degree of trauma that they have together, there's an invisible, everlasting bond."

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.