Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

It was recently predicted that UK energy bills will decrease by 15% come April, which presents households a great opportunity to save.

With this in mind, Hodge Bank has revealed a clever method for households to take advantage of these savings, potentially earning an additional £15 on top.

Christie Cook, managing director of retail at Hodge: “The fall in energy prices this April will come as welcome news for millions of households across the UK, especially after the hikes we saw last year, seeing annual costs of £1,976.

READ MORE: 'I'm a heating expert – using one common gadget will add to your bills'

Check out more real life stories here

“Although only a 15% decrease, on average this amounts to a yearly saving of £293. However, this could be an opportunity to maximise your savings. You can do this by putting aside this ‘extra’ cash in an ISA, which are currently seeing rates of around 4.96%. This means you could earn up to an extra £15."

(Image: Getty Images)

Christie added: “This saving of up to £308 a year could pay for one takeaway coffee a week1 for over a year or even a family Netflix or Spotify account.

“Our research shows that 80% of Brits are most concerned about the energy crisis, with a further 67% reducing their electricity usage for financial reason."

ISA's, which are also known as Individual Savings Accounts, allow you to save tax-free. There are four main types of ISA's - cash ISAs, stocks and shares ISAs, innovative finance ISAs and Lifetime ISAs.

To open one, you must be over 16 for a cash ISA, 18 or over for a stocks and shares or innovative finance ISA and 18 or over but under 40 for a Lifetime ISA. You must also be a resident in the UK and you can't hold an ISA with or on behalf of someone else. You can however get aJunior ISA for children under 18.

The news that energy bills are predicted to drop came at the end of last month. It's thought they will be reduced thanks to a drop in wholesale gas prices.

Want all the biggest Lifestyle news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Hot Topics newsletter