Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

X Factor icon Rhydian Roberts has been spotted looking for love on a dating app - and he hasn't aged since his ITV days.

The TV star appears to be looking to spice up his love life after setting up a profile on Bumble. Rhydian shared a handful of dapper snaps including him on a red carpet and at the beach.

He also cosied up for a snap with his horse too to show to singletons that he was a big animal fan. He also expressed his love for shows such as Grange Hill, Knightrider and The A-Team, when he was a kid.

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

Rhydian, 42, shot to fame on the 2007 series of the show and ended up being runner-up to winner Leon Jackson that year. The singer went on to release a whopping eight albums before retiring this year.

(Image: Ken McKay / Rex Features)

Talking about his decision to step out of the spotlight, Rhydian told Wales Online: "I’ve not been performing much at all, out of choice, since 2019. I took the decision to go to the other side of music to promoting and managing acts.

"I’d achieved a lot of what I wanted to achieve in singing. It’s a different sort of pressure. I prefer it because you’re working with different personalities and it’s different every day.

"With singing I used to get an anxiety that was similar to people who were scared of flying. So that stress has been alleviated somewhat. Working with other people has made me realise how precious I was and how I was worrying for no reason.

“The job has made me realise that maybe I was never cut out for it in the first place. The X Factor was just a stepping stone to release music and then do other things."

Rhydian then explained that his "main job" is actually in the property sector which provides his main source of income after working as a property developer and investor. However, he also works as an artist manager and promoter and has helped represent big acts such as Lee Mead and UB40.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.