Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up to TeamDogs for the best dog news, pictures and stories.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up to TeamDogs for the best dog news, pictures and stories.

A young girl who had been left to fend for herself ended up joining her canine friends and learning nearly all of their behaviours.

Oxana Malaya was discovered by Ukrainian authorities living among her canine friends and copying almost everything that they did from barking even to the way that they eat.

After having been neglected by her alcoholic dad and mum who had 'too many kids', Oxana was left grow up with their family dogs from the age of three.

READ MORE: Mum accidentally mows down 7-year-old son after forcing him to walk home as punishment

For more of the lates t news from the Daily Star, click to the right of here.

(Image: 60 Minutes Australia / YouTube)





Her first venture into the canine world came on a freezing cold night when she made her way into her dog Naima's kennel.

Now, 42-year-old Oxana eventually spoke out about her rather unconventional upbringing, she said: “Mum had too many kids, we didn’t have enough beds.”

And as the years passed her canine tendencies grew to the point where she started to walk on all fours, barking and eating food directly from the ground.

She even claimed that she was able to talk to the dogs, saying: “I would talk to them, they would bark, and I would repeat it.”

After being taken by social services in 1991 after living with dogs for six years, she eventually adjusted to human life. But despite learning how to walk properly and receiving therapy for talking she still exhibited many dog-like behaviours.

She explained: "When I feel lonely, I find myself doing anything I crawl on all fours. This is how lonely I feel. Because I have nobody, I spend my time with dogs, I go for walks and do anything I want to. Nobody notices that I walk on all fours.”

According to Ukrainian media, Oxana is now working on a farm.

But, Oxana is not the first child to be raised by animals, Marina Chapman, from Bradford, reportedly lived with monkeys for around five years after being kidnapped.

To get more stories from the Daily Star delivered straight to your inbox, sign up to one of our free newsletters here.