Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get the best celeb gossip with the Daily Star Showbiz newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get the best celeb gossip with the Daily Star Showbiz newsletter

Meghan Markle is said to be 'desperate' to be Taylor Swift's friend in a bid to overhaul her image, according to a source.

Royal commentator Kinsey Schofield talked about her theory as she joined Patrick Christys on GBN America. The debate centered around the launch of the Sussex's revamped website, when pop superstar Taylor came up.

Kinsey said: "Meghan is desperate to be Taylor's friend." She added: "Meghan invited Taylor Swift on her podcast by sitting down and writing her a handwritten letter begging her to be on Archetypes."

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Meghan and Harry risk being dropped by Netflix four years into 'disappointing' deal

Kinsey went on to suggest Meghan would have been inspired by Taylor's presence at the Super Bowl, where she was treated like rock'n'roll royalty as she cheered on her boyfriend Travis Kelce.

(Image: Getty Images for Project Healthy)

Kinsey said Meghan would have been watching it all play out and thinking 'how do I do that?' on such a level. She claimed: "Meghan attended the Taylor Swift concert in Los Angeles, but she made sure People Magazine new she attended.

The expert also suggested Meghan "wants to be like Taylor Swift marketing wise". Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have hit headlines this week as they rebranded their website. Their previous site, Archewell, now automatically redirects to Sussex.com.

The plush website consistently refers to the couple by their official royal titles. It features a photograph of the pair, with the text 'The Office of Prince Harry and Meghan, The Duke and Duchess of Sussex', alongside a royal coat of arms.

(Image: Getty Images for The Recording Academy)

It comes as the couple were accused of "exploiting he royal family." Harry and Meghan left the Royal Family to seek "financial freedom" and quickly set about signing commercial deals with streaming giants Netflix and Spotify for an estimated £100million.

But their decision to quietly launch a Sussex.com site, using Meghan's coat of arms and detailing their children's prince and princess titles, was branded "exploitative in the extreme".

(Image: Getty Images)

Royal historian Hugo Vickers said: "It goes against everything the Sussexes promised they would not do. They are trading on their royal titles and associations in every way you look at it.

"From the royal coat of arms used, to their Sussex titles to the titles of their children. It doesn't matter what parameters you judge it on, the man on the street would identify those behind the website as part of the royal family. It is exploitative in the extreme."

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.