Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Hollywood actress Sofia Vergara revealed she had to “learn how to do cocaine” ahead of her new Netflix role.

Last month, the 51-year-old actress took on the leading role in the new six-part series which explores the life Griselda Blanco. Colombian Griselda created one of the most notorious drug cartels in history in Miami, Florida before she was arrested in 1985.

Now, the Modern Family star has revealed what it was like to take on such a demanding role. In the lead up to the release on the hugely popular streaming platform, the mum-of-one appeared on The Graham Norton Show.

READ MORE: Hot Ones host 'dating' Mormon turned adult site star who's a fan of 'quickie' sex

READ MORE: Spy Kids star unrecognisable as she strips to undies - but fans spot worrying sign

Joining fellow celebs Jodie Comber, Kevin Hart and Alan Cumming on the famous red sofa, the brunette beauty revealed what it was like to perform under all the prosthetics.

(Image: BBC)

The broadcaster confessed: “You do not look like yourself. How much was going on in terms of makeup?” The TV star couldn’t help but joke: “I actually look like that I just wear a lot of makeup."

She went on to brand the role one of her most challenging to date. Sofia explained: “Jokes aside, that was one of the hardest things because I had to wear a wig, fake teeth, a fake nose.

“I had plastic from here [points to her eye] to here [points to her hairline] because I have very thick eyebrows. So we wanted to thin like from that era.”

(Image: ELIZABETH MORRIS/NETFLIX)

But the transformation didn’t end there, explaining that she also had to change her walk and learn to smoke before she could start filming. She went on: “I had to wear bras to push myself down a little bit to make myself look less Latina.

“And also, I created this walk, and I had to learn to smoke, and I had to learn to do cocaine. So it was a complicated character for me.” It was at this point that the audience erupted into laughter as comedian Kevin Hart rolled his eyes beside her.

She fumed: “Yeah I'm Columbian but we don’t get high on our own supply.” The TV star went on to reveal that she had the idea for the series more than 15 years ago.

The award-winning star revealed: “This was an idea that I had 15 years ago, this was a real story of a woman. This is one of the biggest drug dealers that ever existed in Columbia.

(Image: COURTESY OF NETFLIX)

Have you joined Threads? Follow Daily Star to keep up to date on all things showbiz here .

“She was able to do it for a long, long time because she was a woman, and nobody was suspecting a woman of this insane cartel. She was ruthless.”

Sofia added: “I was crazy about this story because I have this accent that is not that strong but sometimes doesn’t allow me to play every role that I want. So I had to look for roles for me.

“She’s a woman and she’s an immigrant and she was a very, very tough, ruthless woman. You realise that there was a lot more inside of her that made her a monster.”