Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

For the latest from the pitch sign up for our football newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

For the latest from the pitch sign up for our football newsletter

Eddie Mitchell, the former Bournemouth chairman famed for turning Sandbanks into the 'UK's Miami Beach', has died aged 69.

Ex-Bournemouth and Portsmouth chief Harry Redknapp is among the army of millionaire celebrities who have flocked to Sandbanks in modern times. And the list of other big names spotted at the seaside destination includes Liam Gallagher, Karl Pilkington and Rick Stein.

Mitchell joined the Cherries in 2009 when they were just escaping from League Two, and it was under his stewardship that the south coast club managed to bring Eddie Howe back in 2012. That decision proved to be a turning point for the club and has helped to usher in the most successful period in Bournemouth's history.

(Image: ITV)

Premier League Darts Preview 2024 Kebab-loving Luke Littler took the World Championships by storm. Now the teen sensation is taking his talents around the UK and Europe as he faces the big boys in the Premier League. Venues will be packed out to see the new darting icon take on the biggest names in the sport - Luke Humphries, Michael van Gerwin, Michael Smith, Rob Cross, Gerwyn Price, Peter Wright and Nathan Aspinall over the next few months. Our special Premier League preview charts Littler's astronomic rise, turns the spotlight on his rivals for the coveted title, includes an exclusive column from James Wade, interviews with legends of the game, current Premier League players and PDC chairman Eddie Hearn - and it tells you everything you need to know about the tournament. ORDER YOUR COPY HERE NOW!

However, property developer Mitchell made another boardroom call that backfired tremendously. It was he who encouraged Russian major share-holder Maxim Demin to take an interest in the club - before he was banned from the Vitality Stadium and instructed never to return.

He told The Sun last year: “What happened at Bournemouth left me devastated. I am a lifelong Cherries fan but I am not allowed to watch them because I am banned. I was banned within two weeks after I sold the club to the Russian.

(Image: Mike Hewitt/Getty Images)

This article contains affiliate links, we will receive a commission on any sales we generate from it. Learn more Where to watch Premier League Darts Now Sports Membership Get access to all 11 Sky Sports channels, including 7 day free trial of Boost for you to stream the big event in Full HD. You can cancel the membership anytime. Boost auto-renews after your 7 day free trial at £6 a month, unless cancelled. New Boost members only. £34.99 per month, or £11.99 for 24 hours access NOW Buy Now Sky Sports Get all 8 dedicated sports channels, including Premier League, Action & Arena and more. Now only £22 extra a month for 18 months Requires Sky Q & Sky TV. Price guaranteed for entire 18-month minimum term £22 Sky Buy Now

“I got a letter from a solicitor saying that I was no longer welcome and, if I turned up for a match, I would be escorted out of the ground and the police would be called."

Mitchell previously had a serious health scare when his heart stopped on two occasions while at work in 2018. The ordeal meant he had to be placed in a medically-induced coma for three weeks, later confessing he "kept reliving" the terrifying incident.

(Image: PA)

Nicknamed 'Marmite Mitch' for his often outspoken and passionate ways, his legacy at the Vitality Stadium will be mixed among supporters. However, there's no doubting some of his decisions had a significant impact in propelling Bournemouth to their current Premier League heights, not to mention his effect turning Sandbanks into a favourite destination for the elite.