Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Russia's apparent attempt to hide the corpse of Alexei Navalny has been uncovered thanks to leaked CCTV footage.

The mysterious clip shows a midnight motorcade suspected of carrying the body of the Russian opposition leader hidden from his family. A van made by Russian company Ulyanovsky Avtomobilny Zavod, thought to be transporting the corpse, is seen in a convoy with prison vehicles and two highway patrol police cars.

This follows the death of 47 year old Navalny, who many supporters and Western experts believe was killed by Vladimir Putin's regime ahead of the upcoming Russian presidential election. One car in the convoy is unmarked, possibly an escort from the FSB security service.

READ MORE: Alexei Navalny smiles in final footage just one day before Putin critic dies on prison 'walk'

Click for more of the latest news from the Daily Star.

(Image: Getty Images)

The chilling 35-mile midnight journey in freezing temperatures began on the day Navalny is believed to have died - Friday - and continued into the early hours of Saturday. This happened before Navalny's mother Lyudmila, 69, and his lawyer arrived at the jail the next morning hoping to collect his body.

The Federal Penitentiary Service van, designed during the Soviet era and believed to be carrying Navalny, is known as a "Buhan ka" or bread loaf.

The journey started from the Polar Wolf jail in Kharp, went first to Labytnangi, and then crossed the frozen Ob, the world's seventh longest river, to Salekhard, according to independent news outlet Mediazona which obtained the footage of this eerie journey.

The journey across the thick ice may have ended at a hospital morgue, where paramedics revealed Navalny's body was covered in bruises, according to another news outlet, Novaya Gazeta Europe. But prison staff told Lyudmila and the lawyer that the body was at a different morgue.

According to Mediazone: "Navalny's mother and lawyer, who came to the colony in Kharp, were sent to the Salekhard [district] morgue. But there, they were told that they did not have the body of a politician."

And Navalny's press spokeswoman Kira Yarmysh added: "Early in the morning, Alexei's mother and lawyers arrived at the morgue.

(Image: AFP via Getty Images)

"They are not allowed inside. One of the lawyers was literally pushed out. When asked whether Alexei's body was there, the employees did not answer." The outlet said the surveillance camera footage they obtained "confirms that Navalny's body was deliberately hidden from his family".

The family has now been told checks are still underway to establish the cause of death, even though they had said he died of a "blood clot" or "sudden death syndrome".

Notably, the moment at which Navalny's death was recorded - specified as 14:17 local time on a Friday - is being viewed with suspicion, as one fellow prisoner has hinted that he could have perished during the night before.

For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.