Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

A bizarre new video game invites players to try and survive the horror-ridden fantasy world of “Epstein” Island.

The new “survival game” encourages players to build their “base” with friends around the “mysterious and dangerous” world, and “battle the blood-dependent morbiders and forge alliances with other survivors to confront Jefry in his grand temple”.

Part of the weird production involves “defeating a trio of bosses as they work towards the showdown with its main antagonist, Jefry. In one section of the game’s marketing on the download and community platform Steam reads: “There will be three Mini-Bosses on the island, each located in different regions and dropping different items. The first Mini-Boss is Clintin, the second Mini-Boss is Havking, and the third Mini-Boss is Minwell.”

READ MORE: Putin ditches sex-mad gymnast lover for 39-year-old blonde mistress dubbed 'Barbie'

Click for more of the latest news from the Daily Star.

From here players have to go on and fight Jefry himself, but in order to do are tasked with finding the cryptically named “MJs”.

(Image: @officialgalaxyverse/YouTube)

“Find the magic elements in the hidden areas of the island and use them! MJ's found within the island will assist you,” it says. “Seek their help instead of trying to harm them, as they will be your allies!”

The game, which includes “blood effects”, has received a mixed reaction at the time of writing. “Game of the year drops in less than 24 hours,” one person wrote on social media platform X, formerly Twitter.

(Image: @officialgalaxyverse/YouTube)

Meanwhile, on Steam, one angered user said: “Report this garbage. Whomever made this game is a garbage human. You didn't even bother to hide what it is based on: ‘children [sic] sexual exploitation’. You are trash. Your game is trash.”

Another outraged person said: "Sick creation for money and morbid.

"How can they be used to refer to a person who caused so much evil to the victims? They are so in need of money to have created this sick game and the worst thing is that idiotic people buy it. I hope the Steam company lowers this, you have no respect for the situation".

(Image: New York State Sex Offender Regi)

The game was released today (February 16) on Steam and does not make any direct mention of convicted child sex offender Jeffrey Epstein.

For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.