Coleen Nolan has revealed she would consider getting married to her Tinder boyfriend Michael Jones but only if he signs a prenup.

The 58-year-old Loose Women star has been very transparent about the current status of her relationship and recently revealed that she and Michael had split a number of times. And after two divorces, one of them being to EastEnders star Shane Ritchie, Coleen has expressed her reluctancy to walk down the aisle for a third time.

Talking candidly to her Loose Women co-star Kaye Adams on the How to be 60 podcast, Coleen said: "I think Michael would very much like to get married at some point. If it meant a lot to him, maybe I would, but I’d bloody make him sign a great big piece of paper before I did, because I’m not going through that again.”

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

"I never went into marriage thinking – what if it doesn’t work? And neither of them did in the end. It’s traumatic enough on an emotional level, but then when there are solicitors involved and you’re dividing up everything, what it comes down to is who owns what. How much have you got?

(Image: Ken McKay/ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

Give him 50 per cent. Off you trot. It’s a horrible stage and I would like to have that stage worked out," the former chart-topper confessed. But although she has certain reservations about marriage, Coleen strongly emphasised the newfound stability and maturity in her relationship with Michael. She described their union as "100 percent partnership,"while complimenting Michael's calming nature.

(Image: Ken McKay/ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

Join the Daily Star Soaps WhatsApp for all the latest spoilers and exclusives

Coleen previously told OK! that she had gone to therapy to help her overcome some of her battles with relationships. She expressed that she is learning to embrace a more healthy relationship which Micheal is helping her to do. She told the publication: "I might get engaged, but that doesn’t necessarily mean I’m going to walk down the aisle. I know Michael would like to marry me and to be fair to him, it’s probably from insecurity because I’ve finished with him three times since I met him."

(Image: Instagram/coleen_nolan)

Singer Coleen and Michael went public with their relationship back in January 2022, however they decided to call it quits the following summer. During that time, Coleen admitted she was "freaked out" and "not used to" a partner showing her affection.

For more of the latest showbiz and TV news from the Daily Star, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters here