Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

ITV's hit reality show Love Island has been known to make or break couples as they navigate life in a hot and steamy villa while trying to find romance.

The show which first launched in 2015 has provided viewers with a number of loved- up moments as well as moments that left fans hiding their faces. This year's series of Love Island has allowed viewers to watch their fellow islanders fall in an out of love in front of the nation as well as showcase their friendships which can often become turbulent.

And although love usually wins in the end, this hasn't stopped the numerous bust-ups along the way. And trust us there's been quite a few.

READ MORE: Love Island dubbed 'soft porn' as beauty sucks on co-stars finger in raciest episode yet

READ MORE: Want more showbiz? Daily Star has just the thing for you!

From Georgia Harrison and Josh Ritchie's recent feud to Amy Hart and Curtis Pritchard's awkward fallout, Love Island has delivered plenty of hair-raising scenes. Daily Star has taken a flick through some of the biggest bust-ups to date.

Georgia Harrison and Josh Ritchie feud

(Image: ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

During this year's first-ever series of Love Island All Stars, Georgia Harrison became irate after Josh Ritchie declared how he felt her relationship with Anton Danyluk was going. After rumours in the villa started circulating that maybe Anton liked Georgia more than she liked him, the couple wasn't happy about the whispers.

Dishing out his opinion, Josh tried to give Georgia some friendly advice. But once given some time to reflect, Georgia and Anton didn't like what was being said and decided to confront the villa.

Later on, Georgia went back to Josh again and another feud erupted. Sharing her take on the situation, Georgia fumed at Josh and told him that their ten-year friendship had come to an end.

Maura Higgins and Tom Walker

(Image: ITV)

Fans were over the moon when fan favourite Maura Higgins developed a romantic connection with bombshell Tom Walker. As the pair's relationship blossomed, their fellow islanders thought it would be a good idea if they spent a romantic night in the famous hideaway.

But before they could spend an evening alone together for the first time, Maura overheard Tom telling the boys he was looking forward to seeing "if she's all mouth or not". When Tom clarified to Maura what he said, she told him to "f**k off!"

Malia Arkian and Kady McDermott

(Image: ITV)

Bombshell Malia Arkian had a short-lived experience in the villa when she appeared on the show in 2016 after having an unexpected run-in with Kady McDermott. The two women failed to see eye to eye immediately when Malia came into the villa to turn things on its head.

As the women gathered around the fire pit to meet the new bombshell chaos kicked off. But this subsequently led to Malia's quick departure from the show after she allegedly "punched Kady" for spilling her drink on her during her first and only night in the villa.

Anna Vakili and Jordan Hames

(Image: ITV)

During the 2019 series of Love Island, original islander Anna Vakili saw red when she witnessed her partner Jordan Hames talking to bombshell India Reynolds. Jordan and Anna had a rather rocky relationship but Jordan later asked Anna to be his girlfriend.

But shortly after their relationship announcement, Jordan's brief discussion with India made Anna angry. Storming over to India and Jordan, Anna gave him a piece of her mind, which has gone down in Love Island history.

Theo Campbell and Jonny Mitchell

(Image: ITV)

Series three Islanders Theo Campbell and Jonny Mitchell failed to get along when Theo decided to recouple with Tyla Carr at a recoupling. But Theo's unexpected move came as a big surprise to the villa, as well as Jonny, who had hoped to pick Tyla.

With everyone gathered around the firepit, Jonny stated that he would have picked Tyla if he wasn't for a "complete b*****d." Theo didn't take too kindly to Jonny's remark which almost led to the two men coming to blows.

A few days later, Jonny was dumped from the villa, leaving Tyla in tears. Theo then delivered his famous one-liner: "I think if Tyla really liked him she should go as well really".

Laura Anderson and Georgia Steel

(Image: ITV)

Islander Georgia Steel landed herself in hot water when Jack Fowler came back from his date with Georgia, he was quick to tell Laura Anderson that her BFF tried to kiss him. Laura confronted Georgia but it kicked off when the Essex bombshell claimed they both attempted to kiss each other.

With Georgia claiming to be "loyal", Laura wanted to know the truth. Later on, when the two ladies discussed the situation, Laura went on to tell her pal to "wind your f--king neck in" before Georgia stormed off.

Amy Hart and Curtis Pritchard

In 2019, Amy Hart and Curtis Pritchard appeared to be the perfect couple after finding romance early on. But fans were left in shock when Curtis Pritchard's head turned for Jourdan Riane during Casa Amor. Amy was none the wiser and publicly declared how "relieved" she was when she came back from the other villa and saw Curtis had not recoupled.

But a guilty Curtis was forced to spill the tea about his wandering eye. Outraged by his admission, Amy told Curtis: "I was coming back here to tell you, that I loved you!"

Love Island All Stars airs nightly on ITV2 and ITVX at 9pm

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter