Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

On the banks of India’s most sacred river lives a man who eats the bodies of the dead and drinks booze out of their skulls.

Baba is a member of the Aghori sect, a bizarre religious group which seeks to free mankind of the ‘bonds’ of modern life. He lives in the city of Varanasi, on the banks of the river Ganges. It's sometimes called the 'City of Death' because Hindu worshippers bring the bodies of their dead relatives to the river and cremate them, before scattering their ashes in the river’s holy waters.

Baba and his fellow Aghori gather up the ashes and smear them on their bodies. They are also known to collect body parts that have escaped cremation and eat them, a ritual that is connected to their belief that reality is an illusion. Aghori will also eat and drink faeces and urine taken from dead bodies.

READ MORE: Cannibal tribe eats thieves as punishment – devouring everything apart from penises

For more stories of the paranormal, strange and unexplained, check out the Daily Star's Weird News section.

(Image: youtube/@drewbinsky)

Adventurer Drew Binsky travelled to Varanasi to meet Babu and find out about his bizarre lifestyle. At one point Drew ventured out onto the river in a small boat, while Babu chanted beside him in some long-forgotten language and waved a rusty, but deadly-looking sword.

“I felt a little nervous to be isolated on a boat with a cannibal,” he said. “What if something goes wrong?” Babu handed Drew a small skull, probably taken from at the body of a child, before smearing wet ashes on his forehead.

“What the hell is he doing?” Drew asked. “I’ve never held a human skull before, this is insane. I don't know how I what to think or what to feel. they just cover their faces in ashes and now my face is covered in ashes.”

(Image: youtube/@drewbinsky)

By eating the dead bodies, Baba explains, Aghori “attain the energy to make the world a better place”. He claims that of all the parts of a human body, the heart is the tastiest.

Aghori usually eat the human meat raw, but will sometimes cook body parts over an open fire on the river bank. “Death is the truth,” he says. He smokes cannabis given to him by his followers in a special pipe called a chillum, which helps him meditate.

On the trip, he forces Drew to take a puff too. “I really didn’t want to indulge,” the YouTuber confessed. “But when you’re stranded on a boat with a cannibal in the middle of India, you really don’t have a choice.

(Image: youtube/@drewbinsky)

Over 250 bodies are cremated on the banks of the Ganges every day. Family members often welcome the body parts of their loved ones being eaten by the Aghori, because they believe it will bring them peace.

Baba says he “doesn’t care” what happens after he dies, it doesn’t matter to him whether someone eats him or not. He’s just “living life for today”.

To get more stories from Daily Star delivered straight to your inbox sign up to one of our free newsletters here.