Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

For the latest from the pitch sign up for our football newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

For the latest from the pitch sign up for our football newsletter

David Beckham left fans fuming after making an awkward slip-up on stage at the 2024 BAFTA awards.

The Manchester United legend looked dapper in a black suit and a crisp white shirt at the Royal Festival Hall on Sunday night. Beckham took to the stage to hand out the prize for Outstanding Debut by a British Writer, Director or Producer, which was won by Savanah Leaf for her film Earth Mama.

But the 48-year-old made a howler as he referred to ‘football’ as ‘soccer'. And football passionate viewers were left incensed at how a former England national team captain could use the American term for the sport (via the Mirror).

‌READ MORE: Victoria Beckham injured on Valentine's Day as David pokes fun at painful accident

READ MORE: Footballers' WAGs' sex secrets - epic bonking sessions to hefty manhood claim

This article contains affiliate links, we will receive a commission on any sales we generate from it. Learn more Where to watch Premier League Darts Now Sports Membership Get access to all 11 Sky Sports channels, including 7 day free trial of Boost for you to stream the big event in Full HD. You can cancel the membership anytime. Boost auto-renews after your 7 day free trial at £6 a month, unless cancelled. New Boost members only. £34.99 per month, or £11.99 for 24 hours access NOW Buy Now Sky Sports Get all 8 dedicated sports channels, including Premier League, Action & Arena and more. Now only £22 extra a month for 18 months Requires Sky Q & Sky TV. Price guaranteed for entire 18-month minimum term £22 Sky Buy Now

One fan took to social media to tweet: "Don't you dare say soccer, David. Who even are you?” while another fumed: “DAVID BECKHAM YOU ARE ON THE BAFTAS DON'T YOU DARE PANDER TO THE AMERICANS!!!"

A third pointed out: “David Beckham calling football soccer at a British awards show,” while a fourth raged: “David it's a British awards show, you don't need to mention soccer.”

Did you watch Beckham's documentary? Let us know in the comments section below.

(Image: PA)

Despite the uproar online, Beckham got to enjoy an evening rubbing shoulders with some huge names across the film industry. He even had the chance to catch up with Prince William, who was there in his capacity as BAFTA president.

Beckham’s faux pas may be excused by some given the amount of time he has spent in the United States over the years. Having played for LA Galaxy between 2007 and 2012, he now spends much of his time in Florida as the owner of Inter Miami, who signed Lionel Messi last year.

(Image: Getty Images)

The legendary winger attended the BAFTAs thanks to his hit Netflix docu-series 'BECKHAM', which was released in October 2023. The series traces Beckham’s rise from his humble beginnings in east London to Manchester, Spain and then America.