Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Erik ten Hag has been told to ditch six players from their transfer target list and go for two stars from Bayern Munich.

Former Manchester United star Louis Saha has advised his old club to pursue Joshua Kimmich and Alphonso Davies as priorities this summer (via the Mirror). Both players are on contracts that are due to expire in 2025, and Bayern may be open to selling rather than allowing either asset to enter the final 12 months of those deals.

United have a list of six players they fancy signing when the transfer window opens, with new boss Sir Jim Ratcliffe ready to splash the cash. But Champions League-winner Saha, who played at Old Trafford between 2004 and 2008, has said they should go for Kimmich and Davies instead.

READ MORE: Rasmus Hojlund scores after 36 seconds vs Luton as Man Utd star breaks record

READ MORE: Ralf Rangnick's only Man Utd signing could finally make debut after joining training

This article contains affiliate links, we will receive a commission on any sales we generate from it. Learn more Watch football, F1, golf, tennis, cricket and more Get all the sport you could ever ask for Sky Sports is bringing you 500 live football games to watch, as well access to Cricket, Golf, F1, Boxing, NFL, NBA and more across eight dedicated channels. Sky Sports is the only way to watch all the action this year. £22 a month Sky Get it here

Kimmich has been a top player for Bayern and Germany for a number of years, while Davies has established himself as one of the best left-backs in Europe. Saha told Betfred (via Daily Mirror): "They are two extremely experienced players, especially Kimmich.

"Kimmich would obviously be a great fit because he's one of the fittest players in Europe and is capable of running games and is very slick. He and Davies are both quality players, there's no doubting that."

Which position to Man Utd need to improve in most this summer? Let us know in the comments section below.

(Image: Rene Nijhuis/BSR Agency/Getty Images)

Both Bavaria-based talents would theoretically be available for lesser fees because of their current contract situations. However, Saha went on to warn the budget strategy isn't a guaranteed win.

"Going for players with one year remaining on their contract is a smart strategy, but sometimes it doesn't work out," he added. The Frenchman also pointed out other teams will be interested in these players if their contracts are running down, so it won't be easy for United to reel them in.

(Image: Marc Atkins/Getty Images)

Join the Daily Star's WhatsApp for the sexiest headlines, showbiz gossip and lots more The Daily Star is now on WhatsApp and we want you to join us! Through the app, we'll send you the sassiest showbiz stories, some naught headline and a seismic smattering of aliens...along with the latest breaking news of course. To join our community, all you have to do to join is click on this link, select 'Join Chat' and you're in! No one will be able to see who has sign up and no one can send messages except for the Daily Star team. We also treat our community members to competitions, special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don’t like our community, you can check out any time you like. To leave our community click on the name at the top of your screen and choose Exit group. If you’re curious, you can read our Privacy Notice. CLICK HERE TO JOIN

The Red Devils reportedly have their eyes on a number of young talents, including Everton's Jarrad Branthwaite and Nice's Jean-Clair Todibo. Wolves' Pedro Neto and Crystal Palace's Michael Olise are said to be also on the club's current shortlist.