Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Danielle Harold has sent fans into a frenzy with her latest smoking hot social media display.

The 31-year-old former EastEnders actress logged into her Instagram to share a stunning snap to show off her stunning blonde locks. She slipped her toned torso into a black crop top as she posed up a storm for the camera.

She enhanced her natural beauty with some glam makeup as she proudly showed off her glam hair transformation. Danielle simply captioned her post: "Bouncy blow @ghdhairpro @colorwowhair."

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

Unsurprisingly, Danielle's latest Instagram grid update caught the attention of her 657,000 followers. One fan gushed in the comment section: "Danielle you look beautiful." Another added: "So stunning." A third person agreed: "You look amazing." Someone else posted: "You look absolutely gorgeous."

(Image: Instagram/ @danielle_harold)

It comes after Danielle spoke out about her character Lola's emotional exit from the BBC One soap last year. The Walford resident was diagnosed with a brain tumour, and despite a courageous battle with a terminal illness, her last episode will air on May 31 as she tragically passed away. Having joined the show back in 2011, the star has revealed how it felt covering such an important storyline and how difficult it was to film her last few scenes.

(Image: Ken McKay/ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

She previously said: "It's been really difficult filming these last few scenes over because it does get really tough, especially towards the end. It's such a heartbreaking diagnosis and it's not nice to watch or to play, so working with the charities has been so important for us because we want to portray Lola's diagnosis both accurately and sensitively while also raising awareness to hopefully make a change."

Since leaving EastEnders. Danielle has appeared on ITV's I'm a Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!. She came fifth place in the gruelling reality and wasn't too impressed after realising a scene from the show was aired - as she shared her thoughts over a potential harsh nickname.

(Image: James Gourley/ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

"I still don’t know if this really happened, but you know what I’m like with bugs and stuff,” she said. However, her mum interrupted and said: "The frog??" Danielle was referring to when a frog jumped on her face in the middle of the night when she was sleeping in camp. Realising the scene aired and left gobsmacked she said: "No it did happen?!"

She went on: "Oh my god, no. All I’ve done in there, I’m gonna be known as frog face girl!". Things took an awkward, albeit funny turn, when hosts Ant McPartlin and Dec Donnelly during the voiceover of the Coming Out show said: “Don’t worry nobody will call you that. Time for frog-face-girl to head back to the hotel!”

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter