Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

It's not always easy trying to solve your children's homework.

Now one mum was left scratching her head over a tricky maths question. She spent an hour trying to crack her seven-year-old's work before asking the internet for help.

She said: "The teacher asked for an answer as well that includes the numbers. I'm so stuck. This is probably so easy, but after an hour, I'm at my wits' end!"

READ MORE: Join the Daily Star's WhatsApp for the sexiest headlines, showbiz gossip and lots more

You can read more lifestyle stories from Daily Star here.

The parent, who is also a teacher, continued: "It's a second grade maths [question] that we can't figure out. Please help this mama out."

(Image: Getty Images/iStockphoto)

The question read: "Stretch your thinking. Write an addition equation. The equation must have a 1-, a 2-, and a 3-digit addend and use all of these digits. 6 6 2 2 8 8 0 0 0."

People on Reddit tried to solve it, but were left baffled too. One person wrote: "is 0 one digit or no digit?"

Another added: "I would say one it's a placeholder for a real number but it's taking up the space here." A third questioned why schools would give kids such a confusing task.

They said: "The statement just says it must use all of these numbers, doesn't that mean you could use all of those and others as well?"

Join the Daily Star's WhatsApp for the sexiest headlines, showbiz gossip and lots more The Daily Star is now on WhatsApp and we want you to join us! Through the app, we'll send you the sassiest showbiz stories, some naught headline and a seismic smattering of aliens...along with the latest breaking news of course. To join our community, all you have to do to join is click on this link, select 'Join Chat' and you're in! No one will be able to see who has sign up and no one can send messages except for the Daily Star team. We also treat our community members to competitions, special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don’t like our community, you can check out any time you like. To leave our community click on the name at the top of your screen and choose Exit group. If you’re curious, you can read our Privacy Notice. CLICK HERE TO JOIN

But then someone else figured out the sum and showed how they did it. They explained: "800 + 60 + 2 = 862."

The mum was so thankful as she added: "Why did you make it look so easy! We were about to start WWIII over here and you just whipped it out like the obvious thing that it is.

"Thank you for saving my tired brain and also my child's teacher from a very worded email. You win hero of the day!"

She concluded: "The irony? I am a teacher... Sometimes the answer is obvious you just need a little nudge. While it may be super easy for some it can be hard for others."

Want all the biggest Lifestyle news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Hot Topics newsletter