Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Joe Swash has shown off his new wheels - a seven-berth motorhome worth almost £60,000 - after making a deal with Stacey Solomon.

The former EastEnders star, 42, shared a video on Instagram of himself picking out his new campervan at a dealership in the heart of the Midlands. He said: "A deal's a deal, I went clubbing and in return she said we could go camping if I got ourselves a motorhome.

"So I've come all the way to Birmingham to River Motor Homes to pick up one of these. She's gonna do her nut when she sees me driving up the drive in one of these. OMG."

READ MORE: Braless Stacey Solomon nearly flashes fans in plunging gown and muses 'can I pull this off'

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

The van Joe chose is a 2022 Fiat Chausson C656 camper van, listed on AutoTrader for £59,000. It is not yet known whether he bought, borrowed or hired the jaw-dropping vehicle for their family getaway.

(Image: Instagram/ @staceysolomon)

The ad says it's "designed for large families...it offers each member of the tribe comfort and space: for sleeping, for eating (two dinettes), for taking a shower in a very practical bathroom." Between them, Joe and Stacey, 34, have six children together.

Joe has son Harry, 15, with ex-partner Emma Sophocleous, and Stacey has two teenage sons, Zachary, 15, and Leighton, 11, from previous relationships. They share three youngsters. Rex, three, Rose, two and daughter Belle, who turned 1 last week.

As Joe guessed, Stacey wasn't too happy to see the camper van arriving at their family home. She shared a clip of Joe driving it up to Pickle Cottage, with the kids running over to their new car excitedly.

(Image: Instagram/ @staceysolomon)

She said: "OMFG note to self. Never underestimate Joe's ability to make something just to spite me." In another video, Stacey tells Joe off, saying, "You are out of order." Joe couldn't help but laugh as he said: "Come on, the kids love me!"

He then shows Rex and Rose around the new camper van who was equally excited about the new holiday motorhome. Stacey added to her video: "He's so happy with himself. Honestly, it will be an adventure and I'm excited for the kids but omg I'm genuinely scared."

The pair got together back in 2016 after they met on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! and tied the knot in 2022. For Valentine's Day, Stacey made Joe promise to go clubbing without the kids, and she posted bits of their wild night out on Instagram.

(Image: staceysolomon / Instagram)

The doting mum looked nothing short of sensational in a sparkly pink dress and accessorised her ensemble with a necklace with an 'S', while Joe wore a cool all-black outfit.

Behind them, you could see some of the lavish gifts Joe got Stacey on their special day, like a fancy Tom Ford candle called 'F***ing Fabulous'. After sharing the photos, Stacey joked on her Stories about how tricky date nights can be for them.

She said: "I am already regretting making this night happen though. Joe's tipsy and my feet hurt. We haven't even left," and she added some laughing emojis to show she was joking.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.