Roman Kemp has announced he's leaving Capital FM after 10 years.

The 31-year-old DJ shared his news during Monday's (February 19) edition of Captial Breakfast show, which he co-hosts with Sian Welby and Chris Stark. He told listeners: "I've got quite a big announcement and it's one that's really weird to say out loud."

He began: "What I can tell you is I’m not saying goodbye right now, I’m not leaving the show today and that’s it, but it’s not far away. It will come and that goodbye will come in five to six weeks.

"It’s not a decision that has come overnight either, it’s massive, I’ve not found it easy at all. Capital is my family, you as the wonderful listeners that you’ve been, you’ve been with me at my best times and my absolute lowest.. Capital and Global have helped changed me. I was 22 years old when I first joined Capital and it’s built me into the man that I am today, it is all that I know. But I know that now is the right time to leave and now is the right time to move on.

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

The former I'm A Celebrity. star continued: "You listening, and the people in this room, every single person in this room, my producing team, Sian and Chris, Sonny who has done it in the past and Vick Hope who had done it in the past. It’s everyone. The next couple of weeks as I kind of approach the end of my time here on Capital, it’s going to be so tough. I love this place so much, I love it.

(Image: Getty Images)

"I love the station, I love everything about it, Capital is my family. And I also love the connection that you and I, the listeners, have built together. It’s changed. I know that it started out as me being just Martin Kemp’s son, I hope that now you can call me your friend. I've loved every single moment of my time at Capital. The last 10 years have been amazing and hosting the legendary Capital Breakfast is the best job ever.

"But after almost seven years of early alarms, I’m looking forward to some lie-ins and it’s time to hand over the baton! It’s been a privilege and an honour to wake up millions of people every day. It’s the best job in radio and I’ll miss our listeners and the team at Global lots. Whoever the next host of Capital Breakfast is, they’re in for the most incredible ride."

(Image: Getty Images)

Taking to X, formerly known as Twitter, he penned: "Got quite a big announcement for you just after 8am… Tune in to @CapitalOfficial." He began his broadcasting career back in 2014 as a presenter on Capital's Sunday morning show. Almost two years later, he became the new face of The Capital Evening Show before moving to Capital Breakfast the following year.

Roman joined Capital in 2014 before hosting the prestigious The Capital Evening Show in 2016. In 2017 he moved to Capital Breakfast and took the show nationwide in 2019. Roman is best known for appearing on the airwaves but he's also enjoyed a flourishing TV career in recent years.

(Image: Instagram/ @jordannorth1)

Not only does he frequently appear on Celebrity Gogglebox alongside his dad, Martin, but the father-son duo also began hosting their own breakfast show on ITV in April 2021. Most recently, Roman joined The One Show as Alex Jones's regular co-host, alongside Jermaine Jenas.

It has been reported at Radio 1 star Jordan North will replace Roman on the Capital Breakfast show. A source told The Sun: "Jordan is moving to Capital FM to replace Roman and he could not be more excited. It is absolutely huge for him and although it’s hard to leave the BBC he is excited to get started on Capital. Jordan’s decision has been a hard pill to swallow for the BBC but there was nothing they could do to change his mind."

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter