Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

A racy model, whose one of many side-lines includes packaging body parts and worn clothing to horny fans, says some kinky requests can get carried away.

Rebekka Blue is a self-styled 'slutrepreneur' who has taken the fetish world by storm over the past decade. The brunette beauty from North Carolina, US, cashed in on a market which had been neglected by her fellow webcam models.

That cash cow was the kinky customers who wanted something a little more personal than an onscreen performance. The 30-year-old's requests include anything from the more mainstream used pants, socks and shoes, to the more bizarre nails, belly button fluff and even used cotton buds.

READ MORE: Ex-WWE star Mandy Rose 'breaks the internet' with racy collab with fellow wrestler



Read more USA news by clicking here.

By opening herself up to this new wave of followers, she found virtually nothing was off the menu when it came to what got them off.

(Image: missmothership/Instagram)

In fact, her hustle is so successful, she actually has a ready-made menu for those customers who might be a little nervous about enquiring.

And, without judgement, Rebekka is more than happy to offer up her goodies.

Her prices include $100 for a vial of spit, $50 for socks or pants worn for a day and $20 for toenails, all the way down to the $1 burp in a bag.

Discussing the sheer range of body parts and accessories she has on offer, Rebekka told the Daily Star: "When you go get a pedicure, they like the foam inserts they put between your feet.

(Image: missmothership/Instagram)

To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here

"There's the body hair on your legs, then you go a little higher and there's pubic hair.

"You can go as far as belly button fuzz or armpit hair. And then you can kick it up a notch if you want some used bath water mixed with other fluids."

However, Rebekka says some people have very specific requests, which require a lot more work to deliver on.

(Image: missmothership/Instagram)

"They build this whole fantasy of a story, if they want me to wear leggings to hot yoga," she said.

"They want me to shop at Trader Joe's after, then they want me to come home and take care of myself. Then they want the leggings vacuum sealed and overnight shipping and everything, and sometimes they want pictures and videos.

"So I try to sell an experience of the item I'm shipping."

(Image: missmothership/Instagram)

Rebekka's sales really picked up around 2020 when she started a series on TikTok called 'Weird things I sell on the internet'

She said the clips started getting millions of views.

"This was something I was kind of ashamed of, I didn't talk about," she said.

"It wasn't until I shared it on TikTok that I realized there was a whole community of girls out here that either had done it, or wanted to do it."

(Image: missmothership/Instagram)

Despite her stranglehold on her kink market, this isn't the only income stream for the entrepreneurial Rebekka, who still maintains a healthy income from sites like OnlyFans.

As an influencer with 1.5 million followers she also has her own Amazon store and a 'toy' store called Horny Stoner.

On top of that Rebekka shares her wisdom on her Professional Goddess Podcast for 'spicy workers' and 'mattress actresses.'

(Image: missmothership/Instagram)

She has also written a book called Slutrepreneur's Secrets, which sold out in its first run, and is now on the fourth edition.

Rebekka maintained that it's important to keep her incomes streams varied so if the bottom falls out of one market she has plenty of back up.