Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Ukraine's deadliest female sniper has revealed exactly how she reckons Vladimir Putin will be assassinated - if she doesn't get to the Russian President first.

Olena Bilozerska, 44, became a national hero in Ukraine after chilling footage showed her taking out two Russian soldiers.

Originally a journalist from Kyiv, Olena started her military career as a volunteer sniper in 2014, and by 2018 she had become an officer. For two years, she led troops in Donbas.

READ MORE: Russian soldier claims 'shooting enemy is fantastic' in bizarre Kremlin-backed interview

Click for the latest updates from the Russia-Ukraine war.

(Image: YouTube)

Even though she was demobilised in 2020, Olena quickly returned to the frontlines when Putin invaded Ukraine on February 24, 2022. At present she is serving in Ukraine's Artan Special Unit, leading daring missions in the ongoing fight against Russian forces.

On the subject of Putin's future, Olena - who is credited with at least 10 confirmed kills - thinks the tyrant "will not live to see the international tribunal where he will be judged".

(Image: Getty Images)

She told The Sun: "When the Russian elite realises that Putin's rule is becoming unprofitable for them, he will be poisoned or otherwise killed by his own henchmen. Of course I would kill him if I could - but it's unrealistic for me to get such a chance.

"The next Russian leader will not be a friend of Ukraine. But he will have to seek peace with the Western countries in order to rebuild war-torn Russia, and therefore will make some concessions."

(Image: YouTube)

Olena, when asked about Putin, simply said: "An inadequate person. If Putin succeeds in conquering Ukraine, his next victims will be Moldova, Poland, the Baltic states, and Finland. Putin has already threatened Finland because of its joining NATO."

For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.