Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

EastEnders fans have been left gobsmacked by the age difference between George and Eddie Knight.

The characters are played by Colin Salmon and Christopher Fairbank - and fans were shocked at their real ages despite their characters on the show having a much larger age gap.

Colin, who plays the character of George, is 62 years old, while Christopher, who plays George, is 70. This means they have an age gap of just 8 years in real life, despite their characters being portrayed as having a much bigger difference.

READ MORE: Emmerdale star appears in rival soap and romps two characters amid 'throuple' storyline

READ MORE: Want more showbiz? Daily Star has just the thing for you!

One fan wrote on social media: "I thought Colin was late forties and the dad was like 88!" While another added: "if you think about it, since Linda is 40something, it makes sense that George would be 60ish but omg you would never look at colin and guess his age."

(Image: BBC/Jack Barnes/Kieron McCarron)

A third fan shared: "Colin is not 62, surely? He looks more like in his 40s. I know Christopher is much older, more acting experience, but I didn't know he was 70. Crazy. If you look at Helen Worth (Gail) and Sue Nicholls (Audrey) in Coronation Street, their age difference is 8. Helen is 73 and Sue is 80, although she will turn 81 towards the end of the year."

(Image: BBC/Jack Barnes/Kieron McCarron)

This week a big storyline unfolded as George demanded answers from his dad after discovering that he was responsible for a man's death. It turned out that the man Eddie killed, named Henry Kofi Asare, was actually George's father.

While Elaine and Gloria went upstairs for a chat, George and Eddie continued their conversation in the Vic, unaware that Gina and Anna were eavesdropping on their talk about their adopted and biological grandfather. Henry Kofi Asare was murdered by Eddie and his mates before being stuffed in a suitcase and dumped in a canal.

(Image: BBC/Jack Barnes/Kieron McCarron)

A fiery exchange took place between George and Eddie, before Eddie confessed that he witnessed the whole thing. Later, Gloria showed up and admitted that Eddie killed Henry at her request to keep George with them.

For more of the latest showbiz and TV news from the Daily Star, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters here.