Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Danny Dyer once revealed how he got a little excited during his on-screen romp with a Hollywood A-lister.

The TV legend, 46, shot to fame in the nineties - with his breakout role being Moff in 1999’s flick Human Traffic. Since then, he’s not stayed off screens - starring in the likes of The Football Factory and even Celebrity Gogglebox.

He also famously played Mick Carter in BBC soap EastEnders - making his debut in 2013. But in 2022, Danny left the soap when Mick was ‘confirmed’ dead after going missing at sea

READ MORE: Jennifer Tilly loves filming sex scenes at 65 as it's a 'free pass to get naked'

READ MORE: Want more showbiz? Daily Star has just the thing for you!

Back in 2007, the actor also had a role in Straightheads. Danny portrayed Adam in the thriller which followed a couple who are caught up in a violent attack. The pair then decide to get revenge on those who committed the crimes.

(Image: Sony Pics/Everett/REX/Shutterstock)

Alongside Danny in the flick was Hollywood icon Gillian Anderson, whose TV credits include The Crown, Sex Education and The X Files. And it turns out things took an awkward turn when Danny and Gillian had to perform a sex scene.

Talking to Russell Kane on Unzipped in 2012, Dyer admitted that despite his character having trouble getting aroused, he had no such problem in real life. So much so, that he ended up getting an erection - and she noticed.

He said: “I done a film with Gillian Anderson and in the scene I couldn’t ‘get it up. In real life I was aroused.”

Russel then asked if Gillian had noticed, to which Danny replied: “Of course she did. It’s an odd thing – sex scenes. Sometimes they give you a sock to put your winkle in or sometimes they tape it to your leg.”

(Image: Lumina/Screen West Midlands/Kobal/REX/Shutterstock) (Image: Lumina/Screen West Midlands/Kobal/REX/Shutterstock)

Have you joined Threads? Follow Daily Star to keep up to date on all things showbiz here.

In other Danny news, the actor has been getting right back into his role as Football Factory returns. Titled "Marching Powder': The Football Factory Reboot", the film will carry on from the original plot of the sports drama film. First airing in 2004, "The Football Factory" follows the lives of some of Chelsea Football Club's various hooligans and their issues.

Opening to the general public in May 2004, the film was initially panned by critics, who gave the film a slew of negative reviews. However, the film managed to gross over £600k at the box office when it first hit cinemas.

(Image: Film4)

Now, the franchise is to get a anticipated sequel, as hardman Danny, who plays the role of main character Tommy Johnson in the iconic film, was spotted filming fighting scenes.

Twenty years on from the original, it seems as if little will have changed for the character as Danny is seen punching two men to the ground before kicking them.

For more of the latest showbiz and TV news from the Daily Star, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters here.