Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Many Brits look for cost-effective ways to heat their homes.

With energy bills rising, Brits may look to cut costs where they can, especially during the colder months. Portable heaters are often turned to, as people think they're a cost-effective option.

But even though they're popular among home owners, energy expert Gordon Wallis, at Your NRG, said they can actually impact your wallet quite a bit.

READ MORE: Energy saving hack all Brits should know – and it'll save you £222

You can read more lifestyle stories from Daily Star here

Gordon said: "Space heaters are useful, especially for targeted heating in small spaces, but they may take more time to warm up a room than regular radiators. It's important to consider this as you may need to purchase extra heaters, which can cause increased energy consumption and higher bills.

"Space heaters are popular for their convenience, low cost and direct heating ability, but users should also consider its drawbacks in bills if used regularly.

"Using a 2kW heater for an hour each day costs about £29.64 a year, but adding an additional electric heater will increase your energy bill by approximately £59.28 per year."

(Image: Getty Images)

As well as this, he noted the upfront cost of plug-in heaters is often overlooked. Users need to factor in not just the hourly running cost, but also the purchase price.

In some cases, the seemingly cheap solution becomes less cost-effective when considering the total investment. Gordon also said some devices also come with safety risks.

He added: "Electric heaters like the 2kW ones can cause fires because they use a lot of energy. Using them constantly might make them overheat and cause electrical problems.

"To stay safe, don't leave them on for too long without watching and use the right outlets. Avoiding secondhand units, proper sizing and placing heaters on nonflammable surfaces are key precautions.

"Unplugging when not in use and considering timers contribute to safe and efficient usage."

It comes after an expert revealed an ingenious way to shave a significant £222 off annual energy bills. New analysis by kitchen experts, Plumbworld, spotted the substantial difference in energy consumption of swapping out the traditional oven for the more efficient microwave for daily cooking tasks.

Energy-saving experts are heralding this kitchen appliance swap as a practical, and simple hack for households looking to cut down on energy costs. The trick allowed people to save on the cash without compromising on the quality and efficiency of meal preparation.

With the average electric oven consuming between 2.0 to 2.2 kWh per hour, compared to the microwave's modest 0.6 to 0.7 kWh. This means the potential for savings is immense.

Want all the biggest Lifestyle news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Hot Topics newsletter