Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Strictly Come Dancing hunk Giovanni Pernice seems to enjoy dating blonde models.

The 33-year-old dancer was recently seen on dates with model Layla Brown, 27, who is a boxing ring girl. But it ended and Giovanni has reportedly already moved on with Molly Brown, 24, another blonde bombshell.

Layla's friends say she and Giovanni went out in secret after meeting online, but Layla called it off. It's claimed Layla was surprised that Giovanni had found someone new so fast, especially someone who looks so much like her.

READ MORE: Celebrity Big Brother just weeks away as start date 'revealed' for ITV show

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

"Giovanni had a few dates with Layla after he messaged her and started chatting her up. They had fun together but she ended it and he moved on," a source told The Sun.

(Image: WireImage)

"Layla was shocked to see him with Molly because of how alike they look. It was over with Gio before he moved on with Molly but he certainly has a type."

Strictly 2021 champ Giovanni apparently first got in touch with Leicester lass Layla through Instagram last September and was keen for a date, but Layla wasn't so sure at the beginning. He finally persuaded her, and they ended up going out a few months later.

(Image: laylashellby_/Instagram)

"Giovanni seemed to be really into Layla. She's absolutely gorgeous so you can see why he was instantly attracted to her when he saw her. Things didn't work out in the end and then Giovanni moved on with Molly," an insider shared.

Layla works as a model for Memo Management, which supplies ring girls for boxing events. It's believed the pair were keeping their romance secret by not following each other on Instagram, but they've since ditched the plan and gone more public.

(Image: mollybrownxox/Instagram)

Strictly star Giovanni has previously dated stars like Ashley Roberts from the Pussycat Dolls, and Love Island's Maura Higgins. Daily Star has contacted Giovanni's representatives for a comment on the story.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.