Britney Spears filmed herself smoking in a series of now-deleted video clips.

The Toxic singer shared the clips on Instagram, which showed her twirling and dancing in a pair of white hot pants, a cropped sports jersey with the number 69 and knee high boots. The blonde bombshell wore her iconic hair in a long, voluminous ponytail as she put on a show for her fans.

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Kim Cattrall's forgotten Sex And The City lesbian romance and that bathtub scene

She also switched up her look for a pair of denim shorts and a pink crop top to flash her midriff as she smiled with her mouth open. The star posted the videos of herself for her 43 million followers to take in as she danced.

(Image: Instagram)

In the caption, Spears admitted: “Ok, so I was a little excited to get to the studio. It’s actually really cute and at night it’s way hotter and I sweat…I’m trying to lose weight…I kind of like it…normally no thank you but hmmm.” Britney also posed wearing a pink shirt as she puffed on a “white stick,” which looked very much like a cigarette.

Underneath the clip of her “smoking,” Britney said she “used to do this in the Big Apple in her 20s with the boys” before admitting that she was “feeling herself” - a slang term meaning she felt confident with the clip. Spears’ new videos come after she recently hinted at her dating life, five months after splitting from ex-husband Sam Asghari.

(Image: Instagram)

The pop star hinted that there could be dating someone new in a cryptic post on Instagram. She posted a picture from inside a private jet and wrote “I love him” in the caption, which no doubt sent her fans into a frenzy as they tried to figure out who she was referring to.

Spears has yet to confirm or deny whether her message was about former flame Sam, someone new or something else entirely. Ahead of the Super Bowl, Britney also confessed that she is “the most boring” which no doubt came as much of a surprise to her loyal fans.

(Image: britneyspears/Instagram)

She said: “[...] It’s funny because in real life I am the most boring person in the world. I know I will miss a million parties today because of the Super Bowl but honestly it’s not my thing…I will probably go to the park today with my dogs and make some tea and the cheat and show an adorable festive pic I found and say I participated.”

Have you joined Threads? Follow Daily Star to keep up to date on all things showbiz here