Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

An Antiques Roadshow guest was not too impressed after the valuation of their item - so much so that they walked off-set.

The iconic BBC show is no stranger to a jaw-dropping moment. Since its debut, the series has seen a ton of unusual items get valued for eye-watering amounts.

Will Farmer is one of the main presenters on the programme - making his debut back in the 2000s. Over the years, he has spoken to hundreds of guests keen to get hefty valuations for their items.

READ MORE: BBC Antiques Roadshow expert speechless as family's 'treasure' is valued at £150k

READ MORE: Want more showbiz? Daily Star has just the thing for you!

But it turns out one guest was left fuming when Will had to become the bearer of bad news, after their item failed to impress the expert. And the guest didn’t take it lightly - with them reportedly walking off the set.

Speaking to Express, Will recalled his time on the show. The expert then went on to share one of his most awkward moments in the much-loved series.

According to Will, known for his expertise in ceramics and glass, a guest had turned up with a green glass bottle. He said: "It was sold as a very rare 17th-century glass bottle and he said he'd paid £1,000 for it."

(Image: @will_farmer99/Instagram)

Will added: “He said he'd bought it from an antique shop so I knew I had to tread carefully." The expert then went to confer with his colleagues about the item.

However, in an awkward turn of events, Will then had to tell the guest that his ‘antique bottle' was just a mere ordinary piece of glass. What’s more, it was also nowhere near the £1,000 price tag he paid.

(Image: @will_farmer99/Instagram)

He explained: "I had to go back and I remember this poor man's face dropped. He just took it out of my hand, put it in the bag, and walked off."

Will has come across plenty of jaw-dropping items over the years. Back in 2020, Will was fascinated when he saw a yellow ornament that was supported by two metal bird legs.

He told the guest: "I am thrilled to say that we have very successfully ticked off one of those boxes because before us, we have the most brilliant bit of fantastic glass at its best."

(Image: @will_farmer99/Instagram)

Have you joined Threads? Follow Daily Star to keep up to date on all things showbiz here.

The woman revealed that it belonged to her sister, who was given it as a wedding gift in 1966. With its distinctive shape and the vivid colour on the glass, Will was certain that it was the famous Murano glass from the island just off Venice.

He said the creator of the glass bird was a famous Venetian architect, Alessandro Pianon, who started developing the glass in the 1960s. Will explained that Pianon created a collection of birds in similar style and said: "There’s a round one in bright orange, there’s a tall one in green, there’s one I always call the fortune cookie which is sort of blue with stripes.”

For more of the latest showbiz and TV news from the Daily Star, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters here.