Antiques Roadshow has seen some incredible items valued by its history boffins since the show began in 1979.

From artefacts that have been passed down in families from generation to generation, to lost objects discovered in attics and car boot sales, the BBC programme now fronted by Fiona Bruce has seen it all. Every so often the huge valuation of an item leaves the show and its viewers stunned - even more so when their owners declare their refusal to sell.

Scores of guests over the years have turned down potentially huge profits by holding on to their possessions, rather than selling to collectors or listing them for auction. The show often saves the best for last when it broadcasts on a Sunday evening, keeping viewers hooked until the final moment when a staggering resale value is revealed.

READ MORE: Antiques Roadshow fans baffled by guest's 'chilled' reaction after discovering huge profit

READ MORE:BBC issues update on Antiques Roadshow future as host Fiona Bruce shares news

Now, we look back at several items that have been met with huge valuations over the last few years that their owners have decided to keep their hands on.

Victoria Cross

(Image: BBC)

May 2023 saw an incredible item that its owners believed was "worthless" receive a six-figure valuation. BBC presenter and antiques expert Mark Smith was delighted with the "unique moment" he was able to value an item he had never came across on the show before.

A couple brought in a Victoria Cross, which Mark explained was the "highest award for gallantry this country has" but the pair had believed it had no value. They explained the medal was awarded to the female guest's grandfather for their service in the Battle of Passchendaele during the First World War - but he sadly passed away before her fifth birthday. Adding more about her grandad's story, the guest said: "He took charge when he saw that the platoon he was with come out under intense machine gunfire. A lot of them got cut down including the commanding officers, he rushed forward and attacked German machine gun posts."

Mark explained the Victoria Cross is a "very humble medal" and Queen Victoria said: "It's not about the medal, it's about the deed behind the medal." He said: "Queen Victoria didn't want it to be worth money but they do have a value."

The expert soon revealed the medal was worth £250,000 to £300,000 leaving the couple understandably speechless. However, they admitted it "will never leave the family".

Faberge sculpture

(Image: BBC)

In August 2022 expert Geoffrey Minn left a guest lost for words during a valuation of a Faberge sculpture of a pear blossom, which had belonged to the Worcestershire army regiment. But unbeknown to the guest, the item was worth a series amount of cash which is believed to be an Antiques Roadshow record-breaker.

The guest told Geoffrey of its origins: "It was formed in 1794 to protect the shores against a Napoleonic invasion. It was agreed that the regiment should serve only within the United Kingdom, however, in 1899 when the Boer War was going badly, it was decided that some of [the regiment] as volunteers would be mobilised.

"When they left the shores, the Countess of Dudley, whose husband, the Earl of Dudley was a member of the regiment, he was second in command, she presented each and every soldier that went out with a sprig of pear blossom, worked in silk that they were to wear in their hat."

When it came to putting a valuation on the object, Geoffrey said: "I'm going to tell you in my opinion that this is worth £1 million." But the shocked guest left him blindsided as he quipped: "I supposed to say no, it's not for sale. It certainly isn't for sale."

'Unique' plates



(Image: BBC)

Last year an Antiques Roadshow expert was left utterly speechless when a guest turned down his massive offer for her antique plates, one of which was worth £8,000.Serhat Ahmet, a veteran with over 30 years in the industry, thought he had the 1896 plates in the bag, but seemingly the guest had other ideas.

Upon looking at the other items, the popular figure estimated that they'd be auctioned for £5000 despite only personally valuing them at around £100 and £300. And the reason why he offered so much was because of their significant historical value.

Giving a detailed explanation, he said: "There are three generations of the Reid family here, a family of potters and artists. "This is a really good depiction of how the stars of pottery and porcelain changed from about 1820 to about 1925. So then we come on to the Frederick Perton plates, the pair. They're unique, and to think that he did these when he was just 16 years old in 1896. One of a pair, the only pair. If they were to come up at auction, I'd have to pay £5,000 for the pair."

Serhat had to ask: "So what are you going to do with the plates now?" Clearly drawn in by the tale, the guest asserted: "I am going to take them home and look after them," to enormous roars of laughter from the crowd.

Want more TV? Daily Star has just the thing for you!

Jade family heirlooms

(Image: BBC)

An episode in October 2023 saw a couple show off three items of jade. The items included a set of Chinese jade lovebirds, a kidney-shaped item and a bracelet. However, despite their stunning items being worth a combined total of up to £60,000, the guests revealed they weren't going to sell any of them. It was sure to have left some viewers scratching their heads, unable to work out why they'd pass up the opportunity to make a ton of money.

The guests and audience behind them were stunned when Lars valued the items. He said: "I think the pebble bird sits so beautifully is probably between five and eight thousand. The bangle probably about the same." And gasps were heard when he addressed the final piece: "This piece would appeal to a lot of modern collectors. I would say that's probably in the region of 20 to 40,000 pounds."

The couple confirmed they weren't planning on selling anything. They said: "What? Wow. It is our favourite so it's not for sale. Thank you very much. My dad will be very pleased."

Model plane

(Image: BBC)

A July 2021 guest refused to sell an ornament despite it receiving a jaw-dropping valuation. Expert John Foster recognised the distinctive Bluebird hydroplane model as a model of the actual vehicle that was driven by world speed record breaker Donald Campbell.

The guest said he acquired the model from his grandfather, who took over as lead constructor with a company in Coventry that went on the land-speed record in 1964. "I think it was made for either design presentation or even aerodynamics, a wind tunnel perhaps," he told John. "In one of these pictures, he [my grandfather] is leaning over at one point and in the far one, he is talking over to Donald Campbell about something."

John pointed out the black lines on the top of the Bluebird model and suggested that those were markings for where the panels would have been able to be removed so engineers could access to the gas turbine engine. "It might be purely a model for that, just to show the various access points," John said before he turned his attention to the guest's dossier.

John added: "At auction estimate, I think, would be in the region...it's tricky, but between sort of £5,000 and £8,000." The guest looked stunned and responded. "Wow. Not in the habit of selling but yeah, great. Thank you!"

Watch

(Image: BBC)

Earlier in February this year a guest decided to keep his vintage watch, despite an expert giving it a whopping valuation. The guest had received the Bulova watch as a 30th birthday gift from his step-father and had hardly worn it due to not liking the strap. But after speaking to antique dealer Richard Price he discovered that not wearing it probably worked in his favour.

The watch dated back to 1971 when it was bought, the expert explained as he was left shocked at how the watch was in "perfect condition". When the guest explained that it wasn't to his taste, Richard said: "No, but it's absolutely original, that's the joy of it."

He also claimed that the world timer watch was rare, explaining that the price is normally in the "high hundreds". But because the strap was the original, Richard concluded: "I reckon this is much, much rarer. Probably £1,500 to £2,000."

To which, the guest said: "Wow! Brilliant, thank you very much. But it won't be going anywhere." However, to keep it at such a high value Richard warned him to "keep the whole lot together".

For more of the latest showbiz news from Daily Star, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.