Eden Hazard stunningly revealed that he'd routinely arrive overweight when turning for pre-season.

The Chelsea icon announced his shock retirement from football last October at the age of 32 following a horror four-year spell at Real Madrid that was plagued by constant injuries.

The former Belgium captain never played less than 31 league games for the Blues in his seven seasons at Stamford Bridge and was praised for his robustness despite consistently being hacked down in games.

READ MORE: Iconic Liverpool manager puts name in hat to replace Gareth Southgate at England

READ MORE: Livid Erling Haaland slaps TV camera away after Man City disasterclass

Watch football, F1, golf, tennis, cricket and more Get all the sport you could ever ask for Sky Sports is bringing you 500 live football games to watch, as well access to Cricket, Golf, F1, Boxing, NFL, NBA and more across eight dedicated channels. Sky Sports is the only way to watch all the action this year. £22 a month Sky Get it here

However, his availability for the Spanish giants was almost non-existent, as he played just 76 games in four years, scoring a mere four goals in La Liga to sum up a dire last portion of an otherwise stellar football career.

In his first major interview since hanging up his boots, Hazard was a guest on 'The Obi One' podcast, hosted by his former Chelsea team-mate John Obi Mikel. The Belgian opened up about his ill-discipline following the end of the season that saw him pile on the pounds in the summer.

Did Eden Hazard retire too early from football? Give us your thoughts in the comments section below

(Image: Getty Images)

The ex-winger admitted that he turned up out of shape for his first pre-season for Real Madrid as he said: "But me, every summer I was putting on four or five kilos because I was thinking you give so much for 10 months, you put your body at the highest level and people kick you, so your time off is your time off.

"Don’t ask me to do anything. I enjoy being with my family, going to the beach, so don’t ask me to run in those three or four weeks. I can play football on the beach with my kids, no problem, but don’t ask me to run."

(Image: Getty Images)

‌Hazard admitted he was aware of the weight he was putting on in the summer but it was a consistent routine throughout his career. He added: "But if you look throughout my career, the first month (of the season) is the bit where I was thinking it’s just the beginning, and then from September and October I was flying, because I needed time to put my body and mind in the best way.

"So yes, it’s true, I came back after holidays with five kilos, I knew it." The two-time Premier League winner said he'd occasionally celebrate a good performance with "one or two" beers.

(Image: YouTube)

Luke Littler darts fans can back 'The Nuke' in Premier League with his playing shirt Luke Littler fans can now buy the 17-year-old's playing shirt to support him as he continues to demonstrate his talent in the Premier League. The darts sensation was only 16 when he wowed Alexandra Palace at the World Darts Championship (WDC), despite a final loss to Luke Humphries. The Nuke will continue playing against seven of the best dart players in the world — Humphries, Michael van Gerwen, Gerwyn Price, Michael Smith, Nathan Aspinall, Rob Cross and Peter Wright — in a mini-tournament in a different city every Thursday until the final in May. BUY LUKE LITTLER'S SHIRT HERE

‌"As a Belgian guy, we love beers because my country has the best beers in the world, so I’m not telling you I used to drink every day because it’s not true, but sometimes after a good game, one or two is nice," he continued.