Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Meet the woman who travelled over 2,000 miles just for a first date.

Nicole Christine, 30, jetted off to Park City, Utah, from Charlotte, North Carolina, US, to meet a bloke she matched with on a posh dating app.

She didn't think he'd fancy her, but the entire experience surprised her. The pair got chatting and began planning a date to meet in person.

READ MORE: Join the Daily Star's WhatsApp for the sexiest headlines, showbiz gossip and lots more

You can read more lifestyle stories from Daily Star here.

The chap lives in California so they agreed to meet halfway in Park City, Utah, for a four-night date, including skiing, dining out and shopping.

(Image: Nicole Christine)

Nicole said the date – just a week after they matched – went "perfectly" and they're planning to keep seeing each other.

The marketing director, from North Carolina, said: "The date went perfectly, we had such a great time. It was a low-pressure, very honest date.

"We didn't want to be too focused on a specific outcome. There will be more trips in the future and we'll continue to see each other casually."

Nicole was browsing a dating app when she noticed a man she'd known for 9 years but hadn't spoken to in ages liked her profile. She sent him a message and they got chatting.

(Image: Nicole Christine)

She added: "I didn't think he liked me at all anymore but he showed me that he was interested.

"I responded and we started a conversation, we spoke about how we could meet up as he lives on the West Coast."

Nicole and her date decided to meet halfway for a four-night stay in Park City, Utah, starting on January 31, 2024. She admitted: "I travel anyway so I am always happy to hop on a plane."

She had friends in the city and had plans to see them if the date didn't go well.

"We picked a place with great amenities, we enjoyed the hot tub, skiing and shopping," Nicole detailed.

(Image: Nicole Christine)

"We had some great dinner reservations, I was also working remotely at the time so he would ski while I would work."

After their trip, Nicole returned to Charlotte, North Carolina, on February 4, 2024.

She reflected: "We really enjoyed each other's company, we went out for food, skiing and enjoyed the hot tub. It went by so quickly, it was like having a normal life but in a picturesque town.

"I did not have to revert to any second plans, we left feeling like we had done exactly what we wanted."

Despite the distance, Nicole said they've agreed to go for another date but will also see other people.

She explained: "With long distance, there is not an option to get there quickly. We are going to continue to see each other but we are going to respect each other and see each other when the time is right."

Want all the biggest Lifestyle news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Hot Topics newsletter