British holidaymakers planning to stay with friends in Spain have been warned that their hosts could face hefty fines of up to £8,000. This comes as new rules require Brits to show proof of accommodation when visiting the popular tourist destination.

Non-EU passport holders, including Brits, now need to carry evidence of their accommodation for their entire stay in Spain if they're visiting as a tourist for 90 days or less. This proof could be an email confirmation of a hotel, hostel, or private holiday rental booking.

However, for those planning to stay with family or friends, things get a bit trickier. In these cases, an official 'letter of invitation' or 'carta de invitacion', issued by local police, might be necessary. This is more than just a handwritten note – it's an official statement from the host declaring that they are responsible for you, reports the Express.

READ MORE: Canary Islands' gorgeous city has huge pools, £35 hotels and amazing beaches

READ MORE: Latest Canary Islands rules for tourists – from face masks to passport requirements

The responsibility falls on the host to apply for this letter, and they must be either a Spanish national, an EU citizen living in Spain, or a non-EU citizen with legal residence. Without this proof of accommodation, travellers from outside the European Union could face fines if they try to enter Spain without the necessary documentation.

People from countries that don't require a visa to enter Spain, including the UK, US, and most Latin American states, may need a letter of invitation. However, this won't be required until you reach customs in Spain. Failure to produce proof of accommodation at customs could result in a fine.

(Image: Getty Images)

To find out which rules apply to you, head over to the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs' website. Alternatively, you can check the UK FCDO website and look up the requirements to enter Spain.

Applying for a letter of invitation can cost up to £68 (80 euros), though prices may vary. Once the letter is issued, it should be sent straight to the person planning the visit. If you're hosting in Spain, it's your job to make sure your guests catch their flight home. If a guest stays longer than they should, hosts could be hit with fines of up to £8,500 (10,000 euros) or even more.

This risk is especially high if the guest stays beyond the 90-day limit, and the fine can skyrocket in extreme cases, says Olive Press. British nationals are only permitted to stay in Spain for up to 90 days within a 180 day period without a visa. After that they will need to get a visa to stay for a longer period of time for work, study or otherwise.

(Image: Getty Images)

The UK government warns: "If you enter the Schengen area as a tourist, you may need to provide additional documents at the border. As well as a valid return or onward ticket, when travelling to Spain you could be asked to show: you have enough money for your stay [and] proof of accommodation for your stay."

Options to prove your accommodation include:

a hotel booking confirmation

proof of address if visiting your own property (such as second home

an invitation or proof of address if staying with a third party, friends or family. A carta de invitation completed by your hosts is one of the options available.

(Image: AFP via Getty Images)

You must also ensure that your passport is stamped upon entry to Spain. The FCDO advice states: "If you do not have relevant entry or exit stamps in your passport, they will assume you have overstayed. You can show evidence of when and where you entered or exited the Schengen area, and ask the border guards to add this date and location in your passport. Examples of acceptable evidence includes boarding passes and tickets."

British tourists should also ensure that their Passport meets the entry requirements for Spain. This means the document must be less than 10 years old. Some passports issued before 2018 had extra months added to their validity, but this is no longer acceptable for travel to Spain. Your passport must also have at least three months of validity left after you plan to leave.