Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

A bloke was fuming to find a woman sitting in his pre-booked plane seat.

The chap, who chose to remain anonymous, was taking a flight to visit a friend when the awkward incident took place. He was travelling from Florida to California, in the US, and had a ticket for aisle seat 23C.

But unfortunately, he hadn't banked on there being competition for his chosen seat. So he was surprised to find a 'twentysomething woman' had sat down in it, the Mirror reports.

READ MORE: Join the Daily Star's WhatsApp for the sexiest headlines, showbiz gossip and lots more

At first, he imagined there had been some sort of confusion, so showed her his ticket and politely explained that she was “probably in the wrong seat”.

But, the rude young lass simply rolled her eyes and admitted that she should be in seat 24C, the seat right behind his. However, she seemed completely unbothered about moving to her allocated seat.

Taking to Reddit, where he uses the username u/Smolame, the infuriated man recalled: "After a 15-second stare down I say 'well?' and she says she is 'comfortable already' and 'not moving' and 'wants to sleep' blah blah.

"Okay, I see how it is. Real dumb to put someone upset with you in the seat behind you."

(Image: Getty Images)

The man sat in her designated seat and decided to get his revenge… He explained: "I proceeded to set a silent timer on my phone that went off every two minutes to remind myself to kick her seat, violently.

"And then every time the seat belt sign went off I'd get up, grabbing the top of the seat to lift myself up pulling her seat back and forth and one time (accidental but worth it) pulled her hair she put over the back of the seat.

"Safe to say she had lots of extra 'turbulence' and got absolutely no sleep. There were MANY death stares and head turns.

“Each time I would just smile and wave. I knew she wouldn't say anything either because she is not even supposed to be in that seat anyways. Happy travels."

Plenty of people weighed in on the topic at hand. Many applauded him for not just accepting the woman's rudeness lying down.

However, others believed he should have taken the high road. One person commented: "Smart move. Better her be in front of you than vice-versa, and just the right dose of petty revenge."

Another argued: "Nah, sorry man but you gotta call the flight attendant. They'll take care of it for you. If she tries to pull something on you then you can call the attendant back. Best case scenario, the flight attendant will actually upgrade you if possible."

And a third joked: "I'd have said, 'Well since you're in my seat, I'm gonna sit there anyway', and proceed to sit in her lap."

What to do if someone is sitting in your plane seat

As much as we'd like to tell you to replicate this man's petty plan, kicking someone's seat every two minutes isn't very practical. We actually think it would end up hassling you more than letting the situation go!

What we do recommend, though, is kindly asking the person to move out of your seat. If they don't comply, flag down a flight attendant to intervene.

If the person refuses to budge, you may even be able to swing an upgrade or perk from the cabin crew if you discuss the situation in a calm manner.