Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Amanda Holden has posed in her "birthday suit" to mark turning another year older.

The 53-year-old Britain's Got Talent judge has stripped completely naked for a stunning new photoshoot turning 53 years old. She went totally nude as she posed on the edge of a cliff.

Leaving little to the imagination, the Heart FM radio presenter looked like she didn't have a care in the world despite not having a stitch on and being so close to a sheer drop.

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

The eye-popping snaps were taken by her pal and hair stylist, Christian Vermaak and she wore wore nothing but a simple necklace and a smile. Her trademark blonde locks were styled down and were left to blow in the wind as she closed her eyes and soaked up the sun.

One fan gushed: "Wow! Happy birthday gorgeous." Another added: "Such a tease but we all love it don't ever change my dear." A third person posted: "Wow girl, you certainly knock it out the park just gorgeous. Where else can I say speechless!!". Someone else wrote: "You look absolutely amazing Amanda you are one hot gorgeous lady."

It comes after Amanda insisted age is "irrelevant" and that she likes to dress however she wants. She told You magazine: "I love that people are still talking about my tired old breasts and I’m nearly 50. Age is totally irrelevant, thanks to people like J.Lo – a hot woman who dresses for how she feels."

(Image: @noholdenback/Instagram)

In 2019, Amanda admitted she dresses in racy outfits and flashes her chest on purpose. She told The Sun: "Even though I am really open and very much myself most of the time, it’s a fake circumstance when you’re sitting on a panel and judging.

"I'm very aware of myself and what I should say next. Sometimes I pretend I’m not and I'm outrageous, and I’m like, 'Oh I had no idea I was going to say that’, or my boob pops out, 'I had no idea that was going to happen!'

(Image: Sky History/Instagram)

"You have circumstances where you know what you’re doing and the situation is always ongoing, so you are always aware." Amanda has been busy shooting the latest series of Britain's Got Talent auditions along with fellow judges Alesha Dixon, Bruno Tonioli and head judge Simon Cowell in recent weeks.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.