Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

For the latest from the pitch sign up for our football newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

For the latest from the pitch sign up for our football newsletter

The world's richest footballer has been hospitalised after suffering a horror injury during a match.

Faiq Bolkiah, who's the nephew of the Sultan of Brunei and estimated to be worth $20billion (£15.85bn), was a half-time substitute for Ratchaburi in their Thai League clash with Police Tero on Saturday (February 17).

Just a matter of minutes after coming on from the bench, he collided awkwardly with a defender. His right leg was caught under the opponent's, and he was forced off as a result.

READ MORE: Saudi Pro League suffers new embarrassment as just 355 people turn up for match

READ MORE: Eden Hazard snubs Messi & Ronaldo for 'world's best player' and says 'it's not close'

This article contains affiliate links, we will receive a commission on any sales we generate from it. Learn more Watch TNT Sports on Amazon Prime here Sign Up to Amazon and TNT to get a free trial As well as the Champions League, TNT Sports will also be offering sports fans access to games across the Premier League, Europa League, Serie A and much more. You can also watch the biggest events in boxing, UFC, WWE and get exclusive action from MLB. £29.99 per month on top of £8.99 per month Amazon Prime subscription Amazon Buy Now

The injury was so bad so that he was taken to a nearby hospital to receive treatment. Club president Tanawat Nitikanchana visited him with his family to show his support.

He uploaded a picture of them all together on his Instagram page, as well as a picture of doctors tending to Bolkiah, 25, while he watched on with concern.

Do you know of any other footballers who are supremely wealthy? Let us know in the comments section below

(Image: Instagram/fluke_ratchaburifc) (Image: Instagram/fluke_ratchaburifc)

"Today is the saddest day, my bro prince @fjefrib got injured while playing for us @rbfcofficial_," Nitikanchana wrote in the caption. "I know you must be in shock and big pain right now.

"But you must know that we are gonna be with you every step of the way until you are back wearing the dragon jersey and scoring goals for us again.

"Although your only here with us eight months but I’m sure every one in club and the fans love you. We will be waiting for the day you're back strong than ever my boy."

(Image: Getty Images)

It's been a bad week all round for Bolkiah, who was sent off in Ratchaburi's previous match after getting a second yellow card. He joined them last summer after leaving Chonburi.

His royal connections didn't stop him pursuing his dream of becoming a professional footballer. While being educated in England, Bolkiah played in the academies of Southampton, Chelsea and Leicester.

He also had trials with Reading, Arsenal and Stoke. After it didn't work out for him in England, he spent time in Portugal with Maritimo before returning to Asia.