Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Dancing on Ice stars often struggle to keep their relationships afloat due to their jam-packed schedule.

Professional skater Colin Grafton has shared his thoughts on managing relationships while being part of the ITV show. He admitted there are a few things that can contribute to the highs and lows of a romance while on the series.

He told Express.co.uk that it really depends on how well you manage your time. He said: "I would say it depends on the person really. I have been in a relationship previously whilst on the show, and it's really about managing your time well, down to the hour."

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE:The Masked Singer crown Piranha as 2024 champ as star admits he's been 'held back'

Colin admitted that being single during the last series was slightly easier as he could focus fully on the show. But he's now looking for love despite the struggles.

(Image: Kieron McCarron/ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

He said: "I am looking to settle down and maybe go on some dates, who knows?" Despite his busy schedule, he hopes to find someone to share his journey with.

"Due to my industry, it can get very busy but ultimately I would love to have someone to go on this journey with me and it can get a bit lonely at times. I have tried a few dating apps but haven't found 'the one' yet," Colin said.

(Image: Matt Frost/ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

There's often speculation about romance between Dancing on Ice contestants and their partners due to their on-screen chemistry. Made in Chelsea's Miles Nazaire and Vanessa Bauer sparked rumours of an off-screen relationship with their emotional routine.

The reality star chatted with Ranvir Singh and made it clear that they are just mates. He said: "We get it. Of course, there's going to be speculation of romance. It's fun and it's nice but also it's like we really want to show how much work we're putting into this."

"We don't want it to be taken away like 'aw, it's a new couple or something'. We're together every day, hours and hours a day, and we have such amazing friendship, genuinely."

Vanessa agreed, saying that dance partners need to click to make emotional dances like their performance to the tune A Thousand Years.

Dancing on Ice continues tonight on ITV.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.