Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

A model slipped into bed to get seriously saucy – and fans are hoping there's room to join her.

Chloe Saxon is known for stunning fans with her sizzling Instagram snaps – and the dark-haired babe recently spiced things up as she modelled an outfit by Fashion Nova. She slipped into the "Bring It On Rhinestone Bodystocking" as she posed for her latest pictures.

Racy in red, she posed in a totally sheer bodystocking that left little to the imagination. The outfit was so see-through she had to pop on some heart-shaped nipple covers underneath.

READ MORE: Curvy model parades figure in see-through dress – flashing saucy G-string

Read all the latest lifestyle news by the team at Daily Star

The brunette babe was seen sitting on the bed in the long-sleeve outfit that came complete with a matching thong. She proudly flaunted her tattoos in the process, and also clutched a rose in some of the saucy snaps.

The model looked super glam for the occasion as she donned Hollywood-style curls and opted for dramatic make-up. With smoky eyes and dusky pink lipstick, Chloe looked absolutely sensational.

(Image: Chloe Saxon)

Risky and risqué, Chloe set many people's hearts racing, and people definitely stopped scrolling when they saw her getting racy in the boudoir.

Hundreds of people have liked the pictures since she shared them – and her fans were quick to comment too. She's been dubbed as "flawless" by her online admirers.

One person said: "Gosh you are so beautiful. Certainly making someone's day."

Another replied: "Only reason to fly to the UK is for the beauty queen." A third added: "Wow - you look stunning and lovely. Any room for me, babes?"

Meanwhile, a fourth commented: "Ravishing in red."

(Image: Chloe Saxon)

If you've never heard of Chloe before, the star, 36, works as a model, actress and social media influencer. She boasts more than 1million followers on Instagram, and people love her dramatic looks and saucy snaps.

She recently set pulses racing when she very nearly stripped down to her birthday suit to celebrate another year around the sun. At the time, she slipped into the "As Long As I’m Here Teddy", and put on a raunchy display.

Racy in red, she totally stunned as she relaxed on a chair in the bedroom. The plunging bodysuit was sheer, sexy and came complete with cut-out sections at the back.

Want all the biggest Lifestyle news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Hot Topics newsletter