The Masked Singer star Rita Ora looked sensational as she showed off her brand new wavy, bob haircut in a series of raunchy snaps.

The 33-year-old left fans mesmerised as she headed over to Instagram to showcase her stunning new look. Staring directly down the camera lens, Rita turned the heat all the way up while setting the trend with her eye-catching new style.

In the stunning photos, the Hot Right Now singer flaunted her goregous brunette locks wich sat perfectly over her shoudlers. Rita's makeup was styled perfectly with a touch of glam and included a hint of bronzer on her cheeks and touch of pink lipstick on her pout.

READ MORE: Want more showbiz? Daily Star has just the thing for you!

READ MORE: Want more TV? Daily Star has just the thing for you!

Pulling her robe down past her shoulders, the songstress showed off her glowing skin which looked perfect in the camera light. Posing up a storm, Rita's look tantalised her fans.

(Image: INSTAGRAM)

Captioning her snaps, she wrote: "Sometimes you gota cut out the things in life that don’t serve you." Seeing her brand new look, fans couldn't get enough and headed straight to the comment section to shower her with compliments.

One social media user said: "Omg yes this hair is everything." Another penned: "The new chop looks good on you."

(Image: NBC)

A third gasped: "OMG so so so hot!!!" While a fourth added: "I love the way you look without extensions. So stylish."

Later on, Rita shared snaps from when she co-hosted Today with Hoda & Jenna. Wearing a beaitiful black jumpuit with cut on detailing on the chest, the popstar stole viewers' attentions.

Captioning the photo, Rita thanked the American hosts for her debut. She wrote: "Well, this happened!

(Image: GC Images)

Hair products Hair Gain Capsules The unique formula combines the clinically-tested AnaGain ingredient with essential hair vitamins and minerals that contribute to the maintenance of normal hair. Backed by trichologists, the capsules also support normal collagen formation as well as the health of the skin and nails. £29.59 Hair Gain Buy Now Hair Gain Hair Mask Designed for all hair types and conditions, this advanced formula also contains Natural Betamine to strengthen the hair and Phytantriol to provide extra protection against heat damage, split ends and colour fading £25.60 Hair Gain Buy Now Rosemary Oil for Hair Growth The hair growth oil activates your hair follicles and boosts your hair growth. Rosemary hair growth oil works effectively by naturally activating dormant hair follicle germ tissue on the scalp. Good for stopping thinning hair and treating alopecia, make it grow faster and thicker. £14.99 Elbbub Buy Now UKLash Hair Shampoo Quench your hair with our nourishing hair growth shampoo. Pineapple and amino acids stimulate the scalp while panthenol strengthens from the roots allowing your locks to grow long and healthy. Reparative qualities of wheat protein and coconut help to fuse and lock strands together, rejuvenating your hair from over-styling and excessive heat £13.99 UKLash Buy Now

"We had two minutes to prepare ahhh, thank you @hodaandjenna for asking me to co-host the show... Everyone was so lovely and kind, I had SO much fun doing it!! Love to everyone that tuned in, maybe we should do more??!!!"

Fans appeared to love The Masked Singer judge on the show and sang her praises. One impressed Instagram follwer wrote: "Such a good fit and hair! But most of all, you smashed that episode!!"

Rita Ora has been booked and busy of recent as she continues her role as a judge on ITV's The Masked Singer. This popular show which had the likes of Lorraine Kelly and Tiffany Darwish appear on the show will come to an end on Saturday night (February 17).