Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Supermarket Aldi just revealed its fantastic new range of kids chocolate Easter eggs – and parents will be pleased to hear the bargain eggs are on sale from a mere 99p.

The supermarket has introduced a massive variety of new designs in all shapes and sizes including the amazing Giant Galeggsy Egg, the gummy-filled Pinata Egg, and the indulgent Sundae Eggs.

Brand new for this Easter is the Dairyfine Giant Galeggsy Egg (£9.99, 600g) which will be available in stores from March. This huge chocolate wonder weighs a hefty 600g and is sure to delight kids with its space-themed design featuring a creamy milk chocolate shell, decorated with 3D white rocket-ship details that taste as good as they look.

READ MORE: People are only just realising what Aldi supermarket's name actually stands for

Check out more real life stories here

(Image: Aldi)

Meanwhile, Aldi's NEW Dairyfine Pinata Egg (£4.99, 300g) is packed full of gummy sweets and mini eggs hidden within its deliciously creamy milk chocolate shell. Complete with a wooden hammer, kids can smash their way in for the ultimate Easter egg-sperience.

For a fun twist on a traditional Easter egg, children are bound to love Aldi's NEW Dairyfine Chocolate Sundaes (£8.99, 225g). Available in two flavours, White Chocolate Strawberry Sundae topped with a white chocolate drizzle, raspberry pieces, mini doughnut and a blonde chocolate wafer.

Alternatively, chocolate lovers can choose the Caramel Milk Chocolate Sundae that's topped with a white chocolate drizzle, biscuit crumb, mini doughnut and a blonde chocolate wafer.

(Image: Aldi)

Aldi also has some cracking new Front Filled Decorated Eggs (£3.99, 200g) too in two egg-straordinary flavours – classic milk chocolate Cookies and Cream, or white chocolate with popping candy and a tasty colourful rainbow centre. You can find these in stores now.

The Dairyfine 8-Bit Gaming Egg (£5.99, 170g) is back by popular demand too. It's made of yummy milk chocolate and contains a fun popping candy surprise. This charming Easter treat is sure to be loved by gamer girls and boys!

If you want an extra special Easter treat, Aldi has also launched new Popcorn Slabs (£2.49, 100g). Choose between milk chocolate with caramel and chocolate brownie fudge and white chocolate curls, or white chocolate loaded with coloured sprinkles and mini eggs for a colourful dose of Easter fun.

The cute new Chocolate Puppies (£2.99, 150g) make the perfect Easter treat too. These hollow chocolate pups come in two yummy flavours and characters, Charlie the Labrador, a rich marbled milk chocolate, and Honey the Golden Retriever, a silky sweet blonde chocolate.

(Image: Aldi)

For those looking for dairy-free treats, the Dairyfine Free From Eggs (£2.99, 110g) are available in either Choco Honeycomb a tasty choco shell packed with crunchy honeycomb pieces or the white choco button and marshmallow-loaded Choco Eggstreme Egg.

Aldi is also bringing back Spikey the Shark, Herbie the Hedgehog, and Marina the Mermaid (£2.99, 170g) as cute hollow chocolate characters.

For £5.99, customers can get the Egg & Plush Toy set which includes a milk chocolate egg and a Character Plush Toy.Meanwhile Aldi's Easter Egg Hunt Kit (£3.49, 340g) will bring lots of fun for kids with 24 milk chocolate eggs to hide and one big Golden Egg prize to be won!

(Image: Aldi)

Want all the biggest Lifestyle news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Hot Topics newsletter

Those who don't want to splash the cash may also like Aldi's new Milk Chocolate Easter Egg (99p, 82g), which is a tasty, budget-friendly Easter treat. Customers can pick from a cute Bunny or Chick design.

Kids can also enjoy the popular Easter Mug Melts (£1.99, 65g) which are back in a range of cute designs. Choose from the White Chocolate Unicorn, Milk Chocolate Chick and Milk Chocolate Dinosaur. Customers can melt the marshmallow and milk chocolate drop filled chocolate characters in hot milk for the best Easter hot chocolate.

Aldi's full Easter Egg Range is available in store and via Click and Collect from 10th March.