Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

TOWIE’s Amber Turner certainly turned heads as she poured her killer curves into a teeny bikini ahead of her epic return to the ITVBe reality show.

The blonde bombshell, 30, confirmed her return in the early hours of Friday morning (February 16) after her fiery row with her ex Dan Edgar. The star took to Instagram to share a snap of herself as she settled in for a long flight on a plane.

The TV personality jetted off to Bali, Indonesia to film the final series alongside her co-stars Chloe Meadows and Courtney Green. The influencer looked effortlessly beautiful while wearing Chanel earrings and a matching necklace.

READ MORE:Curse of TOWIE businesses - tragic death, £450k diamond scam and Gemma Collins shop ban

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

She was seen snuggling up to watch The Incredibles and enjoyed a three-course breakfast in her business class seat. In another snap, the starlet showed her settling into her new home for the next few weeks as she shared her breath-taking view from the window.

(Image: Beretta-Sims/Raw Image Ltd)

She captioned the post: “Touch down, Bali” and tagged the long-running show TOWIE. Most recently, the model posed up a storm as she slipped into the minuscule maroon two-piece with her sizzling pals.

Amber looked nothing short of sensational as she showed off her washboard abs in the sizzling swimsuit. She accessorised the ensemble with a matching lace sarong and a matching choker which featured a large rose.

The TV star added a pair of large gold star earrings which complimented her gold bracelets and a matching gold designer watch. The social media star styled her golden tresses into loose beachy waves which cascaded over her shoulder.

(Image: Beretta-Sims/Raw Image Ltd)

Elsewhere, her co-star Chloe Meadows put on a glamorous display when she slipped into a black and white striped bikini which she accessorised with a white mesh sarong. The TV star opted to straighten her honey blonde locks which perfectly framed her face.

Meanwhile brunette beauty Courtney Green sizzles in lavender as she showed off her curvaceous figure in the jaw-dropping two-piece. Her steamy swimsuit struggled to contain her ample assets as she posed up a storm on the deck overlooking the ocean.

She accessorised her ensemble with a selection of silver bracelets and added a pair of designer sunnies to protect her eyes from the sun. Her chocolate tresses perfectly framed her face which she had lightly added a wash of makeup to.

(Image: Beretta-Sims/Raw Image Ltd)

Amber, who first joined the Essex-based reality show back in 2017, has certainly had her ups and downs programme. The last time she was seen, she was in the middle of a heated argument with her ex-boyfriend Dan Edgar.

In dramatic scenes from the show, the hunk decided to call it quits on their relationship, claiming they couldn’t go back to how things were. This left Amber devastated, but she wasn’t willing to go down without a fight.

As tears streamed down her face, she told Dan: “It just frustrates me that you say you miss the person I was – it's like, ‘You moss you, you miss it when it’s gone.’ It’s like, ‘Why did you let it get to a point where, when was that gone?’”

(Image: danedgar/Instagram)

Dan replied coldly: “You started doing things that you regret and that now you can’t change. And that is the sad fact of the relationship, and that is why we’re now sitting here in this position.”

After being together for six years, the couple confirmed they had separated back in May 2023. This was yet another blow for Amber, who had recently fallen out with her close pal Chloe Meadows and has an ongoing feud with fellow star Yazmin Oukhellou.

Fans are already glad to see her return to the show, with one person commenting: “So happy to see you back on Towier.” The series returns to our screens later on this summer.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.