Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

A dating expert went on a date with Angela White who exposed the reality of being one of the world's most famous porn stars.

Jana Hocking, who regularly shares her dating highs and lows, received an email asking if she wanted to grab a bit of lunch with one of the most recognisable faces in the sex industry.

The popular adult star, who boasts 10million Instagram followers, made a name for herself in the X-rated industry with her plethora of raunchy videos, including wild threesomes and frisky group videos.

READ MORE: Pornhub announces models of the year – from 'Colombian queen' to 'wife driving men wild'

Check out more Love and Sex stories from Daily Star

Angela, who is also a director, sat down with Jana who described the adult star as "fierce, fabulous and in charge." Despite the dating expert being initially a "little intimidated" to meet Angela, she was greeted with "a big warm hug from a tiny pocket-rocket of a woman."

(Image: Instagram/theangelawhite)

The 5'3 porn star great rocked a "sexy black" outfit for her lunch date with Jana and arrived with "flawless skin, hair and makeup", according to the dating expert.

For the Daily Mail, Jana wrote about her lunch date with Angela - and covered everything from teenage dreams of working in porn, Angela's own love life away from shooting naughty scenes and having a sex toy that's a moiuld of her actual vagina.

"The general rule is a porn scene must go for 30 minutes," Jana learnt from her telling conversation with Angela. "Despite most people not being able to last that long, the general rule of thumb for a porn film is that it must go for 30 minutes.

(Image: Instagram/jana_hocking)

"Angela admitted it's the equivalent of a full cardio workout."

Despite Angela's threesome content being wildly popular, it turns out that her most sought after clips are 'instruction' videos for women. Yes, that's right.

A lot of woman are willing to pay to watch Angela to learn a thing or two, like how to reach orgasm. "I call them Jill-off instruction, and the women love it. I actually use my fleshlight, which is a mould of my own vagina to show them how I like to be touched," Angela told Jana.

(Image: @theangelawhite/Instagram)

On how the toy is made, Angela added: "There's people in the room waiting for you to be aroused before they paint goo on your vulva'.

"So now I have my own toy and it's really fun because I get to use it in my videos to show women [how I reach orgasm]'.

It turns out that Angela always wanted to work within porn since she was just 14-years-old. She admitted that she had a "strong libido" as a teen and prides herself on being "open" to any opportunity that may arise.

The porn star is non-monogamous and polyamorous, meaning she can have more than one partner at once. Jana explained: "When I asked her how she navigates dating multiple people, she said that most are fine with sharing her, but that doesn't mean they want to as well."