Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

The missing MH370 plane could be found in just "10 days,” an expert has claimed.

On March 8, 2014, the Malaysia Airlines passenger jet vanished during a flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. From the ground, all appeared perfectly normal during the first 40 minutes of Flight MH370, which was commanded by senior pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah, and first officer, Fariq Hamid.

Mere seconds after crossing over into Vietnamese airspace, however, MH370 disappeared completely off the radar, and all subsequent attempts to make contact failed.

READ MORE: 'My family were killed in plane crash so I hunted down man responsible and took revenge'

Click for more of the latest news from the Daily Star.

(Image: Bloomberg via Getty Images)

A massive search effort began, spanning from the Indian Ocean off Australia's west coast to Central Asia, but no trace was found of the Boeing 777, or the 227 passengers and 12 crew members who vanished along with it. However, no searches have taken place for several years despite some experts claiming they know where the plane might be.

(Image: Jean-Luc Marchand)

One of those is aerospace expert Jean-Luc Marchand, who said: ”We have done our homework. We have a proposal … the area is small and considering new capabilities it will take 10 days. It could be a quick thing. Until the wreck of MH370 is found, nobody knows (what happened), but, this is a plausible trajectory.”

(Image: Getty Images)

He also shed some light on what he thinks happened to the much-maligned plane, crew and passengers. “We think, and the study that we've done has shown us, that the hijacking was probably performed by an experienced pilot," he claimed.

“The cabin was depressurised ... and it was a soft control ditching to produce minimal debris. It was performed as to not be trapped or found. Certainly, the aircraft was not visible except for military. The guy knew that if search and rescue would be triggered it would be on the flight path.”

And if it was hijacked – which there is no evidence to prove as such so far – he claims that the area it went down in was done so because of one key reason. He explained: “You have Thai, south Indian radar coverage, but they don't care.

"You have reached the war range, but also the radar, so this zone here is in no man's land. No control, no visibility for Kuala Lumpur. So, the guy can do whatever he wants."

For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.