Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Vapers – be careful – as you could face a £5,000 fine for a little-known driving mistake.

Don't let your love for vaping on a watermelon flavoured elfbar land you in hot water with the law and empty your wallet. Across the UK, clouds of fruit-scented nicotine seem to follow us everywhere.

Just like smoking cigarettes, vaping in places where it's not allowed (like aeroplanes, public transport, hospitals etc) can result in a big fine. But what about when you're driving? Can you have a quick puff on your sour blueberry Lost Mary if you're just popping to the supermarket, or should your car always be a smoke-free zone?

READ MORE: Drivers urged to use simple hack to avoid potholes – it could save you thousands

Check out more real life stories here

Vape expert Markus Lindblad, from Haypp, says that while vaping in cars isn't technically illegal, it's definitely not recommended.

"Vaping could obscure vision or distract from the road," he added. "There are some grey areas on this topic as the 'driving without due care' law could come into play if the vapour has restricted vision to the point of it being dangerous."

In this case, drivers risk having nine points added to their licence, and can be fined a maximum of £5,000.

(Image: Getty Images)

It's important to remember that anything that significantly reduces a driver's visibility can be considered a driving offence. The same laws that penalise drivers for having a windscreen or windows obscured by dirt or snow, for example, can be applied to those whose view is blocked by vape smoke.

In the UK, this law falls under Section 41D of the Road Traffic Act 1988.

We might soon see fewer vapers on the roads, as the government confirmed last month that it plans to ban disposable vapes completely to prevent kids from getting addicted. The new rules, set to kick in next year, will put an end to throwaway devices which have been heavily criticised by environmentalists.

While E-cigarettes can be a useful tool for smokers wanting to quit tobacco, there's a serious worry that non-smokers are picking up the habit. In fact, research shows that half of those aged between 18 and 24 who use disposable vapes have never smoked before.

"Vapes should only ever be used as a tool to quit smoking," said Health Secretary Victoria Atkins. "But we are committed to doing more to protect our children from illicit underage vaping, and by banning disposable vapes we're preventing children from becoming hooked for life."

Want all the biggest Lifestyle news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Hot Topics newsletter