Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Top dance group Diversity were forced to cancel a show last minute due to a star's injury.

Dancing On Ice judge Ashley Banjo was left injured and "struggling to walk" - which left the team with no choice but to pull out. The gig was due to be in Sheffield on Saturday evening (February 17).

The performance was set to be at Sheffield City Hall as a leg of their 2023 Supernova tour. But things didn't go to plan after Ashley hurt himself and couldn't perform.

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE:The Masked Singer crown Piranha as 2024 champ as star admits he's been 'held back'

The dance team posted on their official Instagram page and said: "IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT!! Due to an injury sustained during the Matinee show, tonight's Diversity performance will not take place.

"Please keep hold of your tickets and await further information over the coming days." Ashley then revealed what had happened to his followers on his personal Instagram account.

The TV star explained: "We're all absolutely gutted about tonight's show in Sheffield… I'm currently struggling to walk let alone dance with the injury, hence why we have had to postpone so close to the show.

(Image: diversity_official/Instagram)

"But we're doing our best to work it out and get the shows back on track as soon as we can. We're so sorry to everyone who has already made their way to the venue.

"I promise you this is not a decision taken lightly. And I know how disappointing it is for a show to be cancelled last minute. If there was any other way, we would've have made it work. Sorry once again and I'll keep you updated soon. Much love."

(Image: Matt Frost/ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

This comes after Ashley was missing from last Sunday's Dancing On Ice - as he was replaced by American figure skater Johnny Weir for the night. It was Johnny's first time on the panel and he became a hit with viewers.

One fan wrote online: "Can we keep Johnny please" A second added: "Can we have Johnny Weir as a judge every week? He's SO much better than Ashley. He knows what he's talking about with the skating and he's actually giving harsh and real criticism"

Ashley was absent on the panel due to his Diversity commitments but is set to return in time for the programme's semi-final. He will return and join Oti Mabuse, Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean on the judging lineup.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.