Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

The Chase fans were left in hysterics after Bradley Walsh branded one celebrity contestant a “stalker” moments into their head-to-head round.

During Saturday’s visit (February 17) visit to the ITV studios, the beloved host welcomed four new celebrities onto the show. As viewers tuned in to the primetime show, the TV star welcomed Jayde Adams, Tony Cottee, Naughty Boy and The Vivienne on the programme as they put their general knowledge to the test.

This week the quartet went up against Paul ‘The Sinnerman’ Sinha as they battled it out to win some cash for their chosen charity. It’s fair to say the comic certainly brought his A-game after he successfully eliminated the former Strictly Come Dancing star when she stepped up to the podium.

READ MORE: The Chase airs show first as host Bradley Walsh says he's 'never seen it happen before'

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

Next to take on the braniac was former footballer Tony Cottee who sailed through to the final round. As music producer Naughty Boy, whose real name is Shahid Khan, prepared for the gruelling head-to-head round, Bradders started cracking jokes when he asked about the origin of his stage name.

(Image: ITV)

Bradley confessed: "Can I be honest? You don't seem at all naughty, who gave you the name Naughty Boy?" The musician admitted: "Nobody gave it to me, I gave it to me.

"Because I was such a good boy in school, I just wanted to know what it felt like. But also, I think it's such a British word." It was at this point that the former Coronation Street star asked: "Where are you from?"

Naughty Boy surprised the star when he replied: "Watford and you're from, is it Leavesden?" Surprised Bradley said: "Yeah, what are you a stalker?" The record producer then insisted: "No, no. I'm not a stalker. We just live near each other."

(Image: ITV)

The madness didn't end there as the musician struggled to succeed on the quiz show, raking in just £2,000 in the cash builder round. In the end he decided to go big or go home and took on the Chaser for £80,000.

Unfortunately his gamble didn't pay off, and he was sent home packing after three questions in the gruelling head-to-head. Next up to the podium was drag queen The Vivienne, and it's fair to say the cheekiness didn't end there.

Before her cash builder round, she asked Brad if he had ever dressed up in drag before across his career. The dad-of-two admitted: "I once went to a party dressed as a bunny girl.

(Image: ITV)

"And the reason I did that is because my mum's old platform shoes, I was only like five ft eight so all of a sudden I became six foot to six foot two.

"I deliberately had the bunny ears so all of a sudden I became seven foot two and I was the tallest dude in the place. That was the only reason I went and I felt fabulous."

Unfortunately, Paul also booted her out of the competition, leaving the sportsman to take on the Chaser alone. And things only went from bad to worse when Tony was caught in the final round.

Thankfully, Bradley gave the star £1,000 to donate to his charity of choice which was the Bobby Moor fund for Cancer Research UK.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.