Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Katie Price has called out Love Island star Georgia Steel and slammed her “attitude”.

The 45-year-old spoke about the reality star on her podcast The Katie Price Show and had a lot to say about Georgia’s recent antics on the reality dating show. Pricey was clearly unimpressed with the way Steel has been behaving and didn’t hold back when discussing the ITV icon.

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Kim Cattrall's forgotten Sex And The City lesbian romance and that bathtub scene

She told her co-star and sister Sophie: “That Georgia Steel has not come across well at all. When someone can be so pretty and their attitude is sh**, it makes them ugly. If someone in there wasn’t so pretty and had a good personality, it makes them attractive. That’s the situation.”

(Image: ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

This isn’t the first time Pricey has shared her thoughts on the two-time Love Island icon, who first appeared on the ITV show back in 2018. In one Love Island episode, Georgia butted heads with her co-star Molly Smith over Tom Clare and Toby Aromolaran.

(Image: Instagram/ @katieprice)

Price gave her two cents on her podcast: “When I watched her on that, I did think: ‘Oh, she went for him probably for what he could offer her. Like, is she one of these ones who wants a footballer? She speaks well, she’s a pretty girl, but I think she’s not got much personality at all. I don’t think she’s funny or anything.”

This comes after Katie recently left fans gobsmacked after stepping out with MAFS star JJ Slater. The pair have now reportedly been linked but one of Slater’s friends thinks that Katie could have trouble on the horizon.

(Image: Instagram/ @katieprice)

Georges Berthonneau, his MAFS co-star, told Closer: “JJ is the biggest ladies man. He’s made a ton of money, so he only hangs out with models now. Katie will be obsessed with him - she’s known to love Essex guys and he’s all about that vibe. She’ll end up heartbroken because he definitely won’t be in it for the long run.”

Price recently split up with her former flame Carl Woods, who is a previous Love Island contestant.

Have you joined Threads? Follow Daily Star to keep up to date on all things showbiz here