Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

After Valentine's Day this week, many people will be focused on their love life.

And a big part of romance is having a spark in the bedroom. However, if you feel like yours has been lacking lately, then listen up!

That's because Anna Richards, Sex Expert, Pleasure Positivity Educator and Founder of ethical sex platform Frolicme.com, is here to help.

READ MORE: 'I'm a sexpert – these common condom mistakes could land you with an STI'

Check out more love & sex stories here

With studies showing an 'orgasm gap' exists between women and men, it seems many guys could do with a few pointers on how to please their ladies in the bedroom.

Anna has luckily shared her suggestions on how to do this exclusively with Daily Star. And it's sure to have your lover coming back for more.

(Image: frolicme_anna/Instagram)

Explaining what men can do, Anna said: "Firstly, always check in with your partner as to what they enjoy, communication is the key to understanding your partner’s desires and what it is that turns them on.

"As we understand the female orgasm, remember less than 25% of women are capable of achieving orgasm through penetration alone and so clitoral owners rely on the additional intense sensations to help achieve climax and fulfilling sexual satisfaction.

"This is where sex toys such as vibrators and clitoral stimulators can help you achieve some incredible orgasms and stimulation. Quite simply toys do things our bodies alone can’t. They enhance pleasure and sexual experience as well as be fun and wellness boosting through specific increased frequent and consistent stimulation."

(Image: Getty Images/iStockphoto)

She added: "Something as simple as a small bullet vibrator can bring some mighty pulsing stimulation, with pinpoint accuracy directly onto the clitoris, helping your partner more easily reach that heavenly O."

Anna also claimed foreplay can help get your lady in the mood as she added: "It’s very easy to focus on foreplay as all the sexual activity we do before sex, yet that makes us question this sexual activity isn’t really sex.

"Defining sex as just the penetrative part really does limit ourselves and our pleasure and connection in so many ways. Yet some of the best sexual experiences don’t necessarily include penetration and offer our bodies and minds so much more fabulous sexual pleasure."

Giving her tips on how to do foreplay right, she added: "Firstly don’t consider it as foreplay, think of all the activity as sexual pleasure, and communicate the pleasure you enjoy.

"Look at starting outside of the bedroom by including a slow tease and build up by stirring each other's minds with sexual thoughts. Well before you get to touch each other, let them know you can’t get them out of your thoughts.

(Image: Getty Images)

Want all the biggest Lifestyle news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Hot Topics newsletter

"Let this new slower approach continue somewhere other than the bedroom, where you are more restricted in your play and look at sensual touching that may not involve the genitalia at all, but look at other lesser known erogenous zones of the body such as neck, ears, stroking hair all that help to build the moment.

"Take your time to touch and communicate what it is you enjoy, where to touch to really turn you on. Building up the anticipation and understanding of how horny you are feeling will fuel more heated passionate desire in you both. Knowing what your partner likes and wants is mind-blowingly sexy."

She concluded: "If you haven’t before look at including into your play the fun of sex toys introducing new sensations. There is a fabulous range of vibrators and clitoral stimulators to add a different dimension to your pleasure.

"Or you could consider some sensory play by using a blindfold, allowing you to take more control of the moment and allow you to really explore each other’s bodies."