Eden Hazard backed Kevin De Bruyne as the best player in the world - ahead of the likes of Lionel Messi, Cristiano Ronaldo, Kylian Mbappe and Erling Haaland.

The Chelsea icon spent 12 years as the international team-mate of the Manchester City talisman with Belgium. The pair spearheaded the European nation among the greatest national teams in the world in recent years.

They also spent a brief period as club team-mates at Stamford Bridge in the 2013/14 season. That was before De Bruyne departed for Wolfsburg in January 2014 for £18million.

READ MORE: Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi's first contracts revealed – including £516-a-month deal

READ MORE:'Glazers didn't care for trophies – they feared paying out big bonuses to Man Utd players'

Watch football, F1, golf, tennis, cricket and more Get all the sport you could ever ask for Sky Sports is bringing you 500 live football games to watch, as well access to Cricket, Golf, F1, Boxing, NFL, NBA and more across eight dedicated channels. Sky Sports is the only way to watch all the action this year. £22 a month Sky Get it here

A successful period in Germany earned the midfielder a £55million return to England in 2015 with Manchester City. He's since solidified himself as one of their greatest-ever players with honours galore, including a historic Treble last season that saw him nominated for the UEFA Men's Player of the Year Award, which was won by team-mate Haaland.

The 32-year-old recently made his long-awaited return from injury last month and has racked nine goals and assists in all competitions, demonstrating just how important he remains to Pep Guardiola's side.

Who is the frontrunner for the 2025 Ballon d'Or? Give us your thoughts in the comments section below

(Image: YouTube)

According to Hazard, the Belgian's incredible quality and consistency not only makes him the best player in the Premier League but in the world, which he admitted to former Chelsea team-mate John Obi Mikel on the Nigerian’s 'Obi One' podcast.‌‌ "Yes of course, by far, it’s not even close, because he sees things other players don’t see," Hazard said, when asked if De Bruyne is the best player in the Premier League.

‌He went as far as to call his compatriot the best in the world. Hazard added: "And because of the way Guardiola gives him the freedom. Every time Kevin has the ball, he’s free, and that’s why he’s the best because Kevin, when he’s free, is not just the best player in the Premier League, but in the world."

(Image: Getty Images) (Image: Getty Images)

Luke Littler darts fans can back 'The Nuke' in Premier League with his playing shirt Luke Littler fans can now buy the 17-year-old's playing shirt to support him as he continues to demonstrate his talent in the Premier League. The darts sensation was only 16 when he wowed Alexandra Palace at the World Darts Championship (WDC), despite a final loss to Luke Humphries. The Nuke will continue playing against seven of the best dart players in the world — Humphries, Michael van Gerwen, Gerwyn Price, Michael Smith, Nathan Aspinall, Rob Cross and Peter Wright — in a mini-tournament in a different city every Thursday until the final in May. BUY LUKE LITTLER'S SHIRT HERE

Hazard's admission certainly leaves some big names out in the cold such as Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi, who have a combined 13 Ballon d'Or's between them with the Argentine the most recent winner of the prestigious award.

However, with both football greats no longer playing in Europe, De Bruyne is certainly a valid choice for the honour if he continues performing at a high level for the rest of the season.