Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Ashley Roberts stole fans’ breath as she stripped totally naked in the tub for an impromptu photoshoot.

The Pussycat Dolls icon, 42, was keen to show her Instagram followers what she gets up to on her off days, and that included stripping off for a traditional Moroccan spa treatment. The singer posed in a bathtub with a fluffy white towel wrapped around her blonde tresses.

Raising both arms high above her head to hold the edge of the towel out of the water, Ashley risked a rather risqué wardrobe malfunction with the tub’s edge cutting off just above her chest. She showed off the intricate tattoos dotting both arms and closed her eyes to pout for the camera, wearing nothing but gold studs in each ear.

READ MORE: Meghan Markle's wedding had 'terrible smell' and secret cameras in flowers, says co-star

READ MORE: Want more showbiz? Daily Star has just the thing for you!

Jetting off to Morocco on holiday, Ashley explained she was enjoying a hammam, which are the Moroccan equivalent of Turkish baths. They’re traditionally used to purify the body and soul before prayers, but they’ve also been used for wellness treatments.

(Image: Instagram)

Ashley wrote alongside her snaps: “Hammam-a-mia! Everyone must experience an authentic Moroccan hammam hunni. Skin like a baby’s bum. A fun adventure thanks to @mazaganbeachresort.”

Later, Ashley donned a plunging black bikini for a dip in the pool. With a black bra tied together with teeny pieces of string, she added bottoms that were hitched high on her hips to expose her flat tummy. Sweeping her tresses back into a loose pony, Ashley accessorised with huge shades and stuck out her tongue for the camera under a perfect blue sky.

(Image: Instagram)

A silver slip dress was her go-to for a night out on the town. The strappy number was paired with a chainmail clutch bag and layered silver necklaces around her throat, while Ashley left her arms bare in the Moroccan evening air. She added a pair of gold sandals to complete her ensemble and went for a glam pink pout.

Fans couldn’t get enough in the comments section, as one told her: “You are absolutely gorgeous.” Someone else said: “Amazing photos, especially you in the bath!” A third social media user echoed: “Just wow Ashley. You’re gorgeous.”

(Image: Instagram)

For more of the latest showbiz news from Daily Star, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.

Somebody else said: “Have a wonderful time, you look stunning.” And another fan gushed: “You are toooooo bloody stunning!”

It hasn’t been long since Ashley’s last getaway – at Christmas, she headed out to Miami on a lavish vacation and took the plunge in a black bikini as she frolicked in the ocean. The Pussycat Dolls icon seemed right at home in Florida, despite actually hailing from across the States in Phoenix, Arizona.

Follow Daily Star on Threads here.