Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up to TeamDogs for the best dog news, pictures and stories.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up to TeamDogs for the best dog news, pictures and stories.

Nearly 38 years on from the Chernobyl nuclear disaster, the impact on the surrounding wildlife has been remarkable.

The Chernobyl Exclusion Zone, a 30km cordon erected by the Soviet military following the deadly plant explosion, remains largely deserted today, but is home to a number of wild animals.

The area has actually become somewhat of a haven for wildlife with lynx, bison, wolves, horses and deer all roaming the thick forests. Previous research noted how boar, elk and roe deer populations exploded between 1987 and 1996. In the mid-1990s, the populations of wolves became a major problem for local farmers.

READ MORE: 'Aliens' landed at Chernobyl after nuclear disaster to 'suck radiation from air'

Click for the latest updates and news regarding Chernobyl.

(Image: AFP via Getty Images)





But beyond simply allowing animals to thrive without human interference, Chernobyl - and the remaining high levels of background radiation - has impacted wildlife in a number of bizarre ways.

Cancer-resistant wolves

Mutant wolves roaming Chernobyl appear to have developed resistance to cancer, despite generations of exposure to radioactive particles.

Dr Cara Love, an evolutionary biologist and ecotoxicologist at Princeton University, and a team of researchers put radio collars on the wolves in 2014 in a bid to work out just how they have survived. They also took blood samples.

(Image: Fingerlakes Community College)

They found that the wolves are exposed to upwards of 11.28 millirem of radiation every day - more than six times the legal safety limit for humans. The wolves were also found to have altered immune systems similar to cancer patients undergoing radiation treatment.

Moreover, the researchers were able to identify new mutations on genes that are linked to cancer, suggesting the wolves have become resistant.

Black frogs

Researchers found frogs in the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone have become darker in colour, in what is believed to be an example of "rapid evolution".

The study, published in the journal Evolutionary Applications, found that eastern tree frogs with more skin-darkening melanin were more likely to have survived the disaster, leading to the populations today being dominated by black frogs.

(Image: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/eva.13476)

"We consider the most plausible explanation to [why] frogs within the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone [are changing colour] is that the extremely high radiation levels at the moment of the accident selected for frogs with dark skin," Pablo Burraco, the study’s lead author, told LiveScience.

The boffins reckon this "rapid evolution" occurred immediately after the disaster, when radiation levels were at their highest, because melanin is known to "protect against radiation" - meaning darker frogs were more likely to survive and reproduce.

'Genetically distinct' dogs

The Chernobyl Exclusion Zone is home to thousands of feral dogs, descended from the pets abandoned by the families who evacuated in a hurry after the disaster.

A study, published in the journal Science Advances, found the dogs of Chernobyl are "genetically distinct" after analysis of their DNA. It also pinpointed two unique dog populations, one that lives around the power plant itself and one that lives in Chernobyl City. These groups have not overlapped.

(Image: AFP/Getty Images)

More research is needed to determine exactly how radiation has contributed to the genetic differences. Study co-author Elaine Ostrander, a dog genomics expert at the National Human Genome Research Institute, said while speaking to the New York Times: "Do they have mutations that they've acquired that allow them to live and breed successfully in this region?"

For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.