A young, affluent couple in Australia are making the most of their decision to be child-free, embarking on regular holidays and enjoying guilt-free spending. Ella and Nick Maegraph, both 27, have been married for two years and are revelling in their freedom from parental responsibilities.

They splash their cash on trips abroad and enjoy weekly meals out with friends, all while managing to save a substantial amount of money each month while living their lavish lifestyle thanks to not having any children and choosing an unusual living situation. Despite their carefree spending, they still manage to save an average of $3.7k (£1917)a month between them – by living in a "shed".

Ella, a travel agent from Adelaide, said: "We are enjoying being able to save and pay off debts and we are at the point in our lives where we can indulge in our personal spending. Between us both, we are earning $13k (£6738) a month and are saving around $3.7k We have been able to travel and enjoy this stage of our life that we are in."

READ MORE: 'I stayed on a remote paradise island for free - I only ever paid for drinks'

READ MORE: 'I visited three of Thailand's best destinations in one week - it's easier than you think'

The couple plan to have children in the future, but for now are determined to make the most of their child-free years. Ella added: "We are enjoying saving, paying off debt and yes living it up and indulging in our personal spending. Holiday travel is really important for us, even just the everyday stuff like going to buy a coffee. We also love going out for food and drinks with our friends on the weekend, it isn't necessarily expensive but feels indulgent."

(Image: Ella Maegraph / SWNS)

A couple who sold all their belongings to live in a tiny, off-grid "shed" debt-free have revealed how they save around $40k-a-year (£20,733) despite having an average monthly spend of $3.5k (£1814).

Ella and Nick, who mainly travelled domestically this year, have booked a trip to the US in the New Year and plan to visit New York, Los Angeles, Boston and San Francisco. Ella said: "We are not tied to much so we have the flexibility to do what we want. Spending quality time together is one of my love languages, having that time together is very important.

"We prioritise going away together, going on a walk or having a date night. Life goes by so fast and once we have kids we will have them for the rest of our lives. We are definitely in the mentality that we want to enjoy our life together as a married couple before having kids."

(Image: Ella Maegraph / SWNS)

Monthly spending:

£2073 bills

£31 subscriptions

£285 groceries

£77 drinks

£259 travel

Monthly savings:

£1917 on average

(Image: Ella Maegraph / SWNS)

Despite having an average monthly spend of $3.5k (£1814) Ella and Nick have saved a fortune with their stripped back home – even while jetting off all over the world. Ella said: "We save a couple of thousand dollars a month, the last few months we have been trying to pay off our car loan and have been putting our money towards that.

"I guess it allows us to take financial risk, be a little bit more frivolous with our money. We have had a very good year, we have been able to travel and buy a new car. We are enjoying the stage of life that we are in."

Nick said: "We're both really excited about the prospect of having a family in the future. For now we're just enjoying our lifestyle and taking things as they come."