Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

The Green River Killer terrorised Washington State from 1982 to 1998, claiming the lives of up to 71 women..

Mass murderer Gary Ridgway targeted sex workers and other vulnerable women, including underage runaways. Before Ridgway's confession, authorities had attributed 49 murders to the Green River Killer, but he himself confessed to murdering at least 71 victims.

If true this would make him one of America's most deadly serial killers, surpassing the likes of Ted Bundy - who was instrumental in bringing Ridgway to justice. Ridgway's chilling confessions included boasting about his choking skills and the gruesome efficiency of necrophilia.

READ MORE: Ex-WWE star Mandy Rose 'breaks the internet' with racy collab with fellow wrestler



Read more USA news by clicking here.

He admitted to having sex with dead victims, and told cops he had to bury the bodies to stop himself from having sex with them endlessly.

(Image: AFP)

Born on February 18, 1949, in Salt Lake City, Utah, Ridgway seemed to have a normal childhood, until he was aged 14 and tried to stab a six-year-old boy to death.

Ridgway confessed to a psychotherapist that he planned to kill his mum because he was sexually attracted to her.

While she escaped Ridgway's killing spree, some believe his actions may have been "displaced matricide," with him unknowingly "killing his mother over and over again."

(Image: AFP)

To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here

The Seattle serial killer would bury his victims in woodlands near the Green River, earning him his chilling nickname.

Ridgway would also deliberately litter crime scenes with gum and cigarette butts - even though he didn't smoke or chew gum - to baffle officials.

When the bodies first started appearing, the King County Sheriff's Office set up the "Green River Task Force," to hunt down the culprit they got help from an unexpected place.



(Image: KCPQ)

Robert Keppel and Dave Reichert were part of the Green River Task Force team who regularly interviewed psychologists and criminologists, trying to understand what drove the killer.

Their interviews eventually led them to Ted Bundy in 1984.

Keppel revealed that Bundy, shockingly, offered to help with the investigation.

"It was a letter from a 'want to-be' consultant and the most unlikely person I ever anticipated to be of assistance in the Green River killings," Keppel said, taken aback, after receiving the unexpected offer from a detective with the Seattle Police Department.

Despite serving several years behind bars for his sickening crimes, Bundy became an asset to the investigation.

This was due to his disturbingly intimate knowledge of the type of savagery found in the local murders.

Regularly interviewed by Keppel and Reichert, Bundy offered his raw take on the mind of the Seattle serial killer.

Bundy once suggested during an interview that the Seattle serial killer, still on the loose, was probably returning to his burial sites to commit necrophilia.

(Image: Getty Images)

He advised detectives to "stake it out and wait for the killer to return" if they found a new grave.

Bundy's hunches turned out to be spot on, helping the police gather samples and evidence for an arrest warrant.

But it wasn't until 2001 that Ridgway was finally caught, suspected of killing four people.

Ridgway had been working at the same company for 30 years and had been married three times.

His third wife, Judith Mawson, who only discovered his crimes after he was jailed, was shocked to learn about his long history of rape, murder, and necrophilia.

(Image: Getty Images)

Ridgway was the "perfect husband," Mawson said, treating her "like a newlywed" even after 17 years of marriage.

But in reality, Ridgway confessed he had thought about killing Mawson, but didn't because it would increase his chances of getting caught.

Despite this, he claimed to love Mawson, and his murder rate dropped after they got married, according to the timeline of his known killings.

The Seattle serial killer agreed to reveal where he'd hidden his victims' bodies in exchange for life in prison instead of the death penalty.

After cooperating, he was given 48 consecutive life sentences. Then, each sentence was extended by ten years for tampering with evidence, adding 480 years to his total prison term.

(Image: AFP)

In 2011, a 49th body linked to Ridgway was found, adding another life sentence to his prison term.

At the time of his trial, Ridgway had admitted to more confirmed murders than any other serial killer in America.

And he said that his real "job" was killing young women.

The killer, who turns 75 on February 18, is currently serving life sentences in the Washington State Penitentiary in Walla Walla, Washington.