Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

For the latest from the pitch sign up for our football newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

For the latest from the pitch sign up for our football newsletter

Birmingham City manager Tony Mowbray is to temporarily step away from the role as he battles a serious illness.

The 60-year-old will be taking at least six to eight weeks off to undergo treatment. He arrived at St Andrews just last month to replace Wayne Rooney as Blues boss.

Assistant Mark Venus will take charge in his absence. In a statement on the club website, Mowbray said: “Following my recent LMA Health Assessment I have received a medical diagnosis that will require me to receive treatment.

READ MORE: Laura Woods' stalker, 25, jailed after two years of hell and threat to kill dog

READ MORE: David Beckham infuriates viewers with one word as footy icon appears at BAFTAs

"Undergoing treatment will necessitate that I temporarily step away from the technical area as manager of Birmingham City Football Club.

"Until I return, my assistant manager, Mark Venus, will take temporary charge of the team, supported by coaches Ashley Cole, Pete Shuttleworth and Maik Taylor. I will continue to provide advice and counsel while undergoing treatment.

“The club has been incredibly supportive of me and my family and we are very grateful. I know that everyone will be respectful of our privacy at this time.”

(Image: X/@BCFC)

(Image: Getty Images)

Since his arrival, Mowbray's helped overturn their poor with four wins, two draws and three defeats in all competitions. The Championship club sit 15th in the table, six points clear of the relegation zone and with a game in hand.

CEO Garry Cook sent Mowbray their best wishes, adding: “Our thoughts are with Tony, his wife Amber, and family. We wish him a speedy recovery and look forward to welcoming Tony back to the club to continue the excellent work that he has started.

(Image: X/@BCFC)

"In the meantime, Mark Venus, Ashley Cole, Pete Shuttleworth and Maik Taylor, will be given all the support they need to lead the club forward.”

Back-to-back home victories in the last week against Blackburn Rovers and Sunderland made it 10 points from Mowbray's first six league games. Rooney, in comparison, won just two of his 15 games.