Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

A British lad from Rochdale is not dating the future Queen of Belgium, his family insists.

The family of Nicholas Dodd, a student from Whitworth, Greater Manchester, have said it's not true that he's in a relationship with Princess Elisabeth of Belgium.

According to rumours in some sections of the Belgian media, stories emerged about how Nicholas and the princess, who could one day be the Queen of Belgium, had a special friendship after meeting at Oxford University where they're both hitting the books.

READ MORE: 'My family were killed in plane crash so I hunted down man responsible and took revenge'

Click for more of the latest news from the Daily Star.

(Image: Getty Images)

However, when the Manchester Evening News popped over to Nicholas's place in Whitworth to see what's what, a member of his family said the gossip isn't true. Chatting outside their house, the person who didn't want to be named, said: "No, that is false. They just go to the same college and study together. Just like all his other friends, I can't comment any further."

Nicholas is a top student and even got a shout-out on the Rochdale Sixth Form College website for getting into Oxford University to study history in 2021.

Princess Elisabeth, who's 21, is set to be the Queen of Belgium. She's the first child of King Philippe and Queen Mathilde. In 2021, she started studying history and politics at Lincoln College, which is part of Oxford University.

(Image: BELGA/AFP via Getty Images)

Although she doesn't have an official Instagram page, images posted on the Belgian Royal Palace account are often the most interacted with of all royal images.

And fans flock to the comments to praise her, with a recent image of her seeing comments such as: "She will be a great queen in the future."

A second wrote: "Our Gorgeous Future Queen - a Queen of Hearts'." And a third posted on the image of her doing a hospital visit: "Princess Elisabeth is doing a wonderful job."

For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.