Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Cat Deeley has made a heartfelt promise to Kate Garraway as she prepares to host This Morning with Ben Shephard.

The TV presenter has responded to Kate's emotional Instagram post about Ben's departure from Good Morning Britain, promising to take care of him in his new role.

In her post, Kate congratulated Ben on his new gig and admitted he would be greatly missed by the GMB team and viewers alike. Cat thanked Kate for her kind words and said she was looking forward to working with Ben, describing him as a "Ben is a true gentleman, an incredible presenter and a great journalist".

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

Ben recently shared his excitement about teaming up with a new face, saying: "Cat has extraordinary experience from working in America on some incredible shows so I'll be getting all the inside info on how things work on the other side of the Atlantic. She's also a mum of two young boys so I'll be vicariously reliving my boy's childhood through them."

(Image: (Image: GETTY))

The Tipping Point star also admitted that leaving his old co-star Kate was the "hardest decision" he had to make. Cat joined the This Morning as a permanent host after fans loved her when she presenter the show with Rylan Clark. People watching at home thought Cat and Rylan were fab together. One fan said: "Please can we keep @Rylan and @catdeeley! Breath of fresh air into the programme! Finally, a great team!"

(Image: (Image: GETTY))

Another added: "I'm not often home to see @thismorning but @catdeeley and @Rylan are clearly the dream team! So happy to see Wonky Donkey!!" Someone else wrote: "Rylan and Cat make a great team! Long may they reign at the helm!" And another viewer commented: "Well what a duo @catdeeley and @Rylan - a watchable show," Rylan himself said he likes popping in now and then rather than hosting full-time.

(Image: Dave Benett/Getty Images)

He joked to Yahoo: "It's so nice to be able to just pop in for a week, see everyone, have a lovely time, give away some money and go home. And at the end of the day, if I do anything wrong, ain't my show, don't care!". Ben and Cat will host This Morning together from next month.

This Morning airs weekdays on ITV1 and ITVX at 10am

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter