Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Love Island fans were left cringing after the "most awkward scene ever" involving Georgia H and Anton.

During Friday's episode (February 16) of the ITV2 dating show, Georgia H and Georgia S were discussing the status of their relationships. Earlier in the episode, Georgia S and Toby concluded that they were "locked off" while Georgia H and Anton made things exclusive last week.

Turning to Anton in the kitchen, Georgia H asked: "Are we locked off?" To which Anton responded: "No we're exclusive."

READ MORE: Love Island's Chris Taylor reignites co-star feud after revealing what went wrong in villa

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

The 29-year-old then asked if being exclusive was above being closed off. Taking one step further, Anton asked: "Do you want to be my girlfriend?"

(Image: ITV)

A stunned Georgia responded with silence before questioning whether that's a conversation to have in private. Fans raced to social media, with one branding it "the most awkward scene" in the show's history.

Writing on X, one penned: "Most awkward thing ever.. she does not wanna be that man’s girlfriend." A second agreed: "That is so awkward. Like Georgia is basically saying ask me to be your girlfriend in private so I can reject you."

(Image: ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

"Naah she completely rejected him #loveisland," declared another viewer. A fourth weighed in: "'Do you not think this should be a conversation we have in private' Whoooo says that when someone asks you to be their girlfriend if you ACTUALLY like them. Nahh Anton, please wake up."

Echoing this, another shared: "i hope anton realises now that georgia does not like him the way he thinks she does." Meanwhile someone else said: "The silence after Anton asked Georgia to be his girlfriend was LOUD."

(Image: ITV)

Later in the episode, the couple were sat on the beanbags enjoying a kiss before an argument suddenly broke out. Georgia claimed Anton says hurtful things before he declared he was the least selfish in their couple.

Laying in bed, Anton reignited the conversation as he claimed to always consider Georgia's feelings. But Georgia wasn't interested as she shut the conversation down, insisting "it's not that deep". Anton then left the bed to go and sleep in a different room as Georgia claimed he was annoyed at her for nothing.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.