Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

For the latest from the pitch sign up for our football newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

For the latest from the pitch sign up for our football newsletter

It seems the Saudi Pro League isn't on the verge of becoming a global spectacle just yet.

Or at least not if fans in Saudi Arabia continue to shun the local matches themselves, that is. And it appears certain fixtures are still struggling to attract almost any spectators after just 355 turned up for a recent clash between Al-Hazem and Al-Fayha.

The two teams faced off at Al-Hazm Club Stadium in Ar Rass on Saturday for a battle between teams currently mired in a fight against relegation. And it was travelling Al-Fayha who came out as 3-1 winners to put a wedge between them and the drop zone.

READ MORE: Saudi Pro League suffer another attendance low as only 800 turn up to 38,000-seat stadium

READ MORE: Jurgen Klopp 'refused to tell Sadio Mane' about transfer that impacted his Liverpool role

Premier League Darts Preview 2024 Kebab-loving Luke Littler took the World Championships by storm. Now the teen sensation is taking his talents around the UK and Europe as he faces the big boys in the Premier League. Venues will be packed out to see the new darting icon take on the biggest names in the sport - Luke Humphries, Michael van Gerwin, Michael Smith, Rob Cross, Gerwyn Price, Peter Wright and Nathan Aspinall over the next few months. Our special Premier League preview charts Littler's astronomic rise, turns the spotlight on his rivals for the coveted title, includes an exclusive column from James Wade, interviews with legends of the game, current Premier League players and PDC chairman Eddie Hearn - and it tells you everything you need to know about the tournament. ORDER YOUR COPY HERE NOW!

It's no wonder the visiting team had little bother coming away with all three points given how few home fans showed up to support their team. And it seemed as though any roars from the crowd were just as loud when they scored compared to the hosts.

Al-Hazem briefly believed they were en route to a first win of 2024 after Mohammed Al-Thani put them ahead in the ninth minute. However, the lead lasted only four minutes before ex-Everton forward Henry Onyekuru bagged the first of two goals on the day.

Are you surprised at the Saudi Pro League's low crowds? Let us know in the comments section below

(Image: Michael Regan/Getty Images) (Image: Instagram/Al-Fayha)

The Nigerian netted either side of an Anthony Nwakaeme finish to end Al-Fayha's run of five games without a win in all competitions. The Mills of Sudair picked up their first league victory since November 25 as a result and now sit three points clear of the relegation places.

Al-Hazem, meanwhile, remain stranded at the bottom of the Saudi Pro League and are six points from safety. And it's times like these when the right support can mean the difference between survival and disaster.

This article contains affiliate links, we will receive a commission on any sales we generate from it. Learn more Where to watch Premier League Darts Now Sports Membership Get access to all 11 Sky Sports channels, including 7 day free trial of Boost for you to stream the big event in Full HD. You can cancel the membership anytime. Boost auto-renews after your 7 day free trial at £6 a month, unless cancelled. New Boost members only. £34.99 per month, or £11.99 for 24 hours access NOW Buy Now Sky Sports Get all 8 dedicated sports channels, including Premier League, Action & Arena and more. Now only £22 extra a month for 18 months Requires Sky Q & Sky TV. Price guaranteed for entire 18-month minimum term £22 Sky Buy Now

With a maximum capacity of only 8,000, Al-Hazm Club Stadium is hardly the most demanding venue to fill out in Saudi Arabia. That being said, Al-Hazem would be unwise to think a sudden influx of fans will suddenly save them from their plight.