Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

A woman who tried 20 diets finally lost 14 stone after taking up bodybuilding – and she's "never felt prettier".

Judith Magill, 46, experimented with various food regimes without success for nearly two decades. But, after once tipping the scales at 23st 4lbs, she dropped to 9st 11lb and a dress size 8 in just three years after lifting weights daily at a gym.

Judith, a teacher from County Down, Northern Ireland, said: "I didn't need a new diet, I needed consistency."

READ MORE: 'I'm woman behind weight loss jab – it's shaved 50,000 tonnes of fat off Brits'

Check out more diet & fitness stories

For 15 years, Judith tried every diet she could find, including the cabbage soup diet and a meat based diet, in a bid to shift the pounds. She also tried a water diet, Weight Watchers, Slimming World, a chewing diet, Atkins, intermittent fasting, Keto and taking supplements.

But after nearly two decades she finally had a ''moment of clarity'', and realised she needed to stop viewing food as a reward. With this shift in outlook, Judith, who was a dress size 24 at her biggest, started a course of weight lifting at her local gym.

(Image: Judith Magill / SWNS)

The university teacher now competes in body competitions and attends the Pure Gym every day ''without fail''. She also tracks her food intake and focuses on a high protein, low fat meal plan.

And as a result, she has slimmed down to a 9st and a dress size 8 in just two-and-a-half-years.

Judith said: "I was always known as the fat one. My twin sister was the hot one, and I was the ugly duckling. I've tried every diet under the sun. I ate nothing but cabbage for seven days, and nothing worked.

"After sticking to one plan, I've finally reached my ideal body type. I loved mixing with like-minded people while body building."

Judith first noticed her weight as an issue when she was in school and felt people ''made comparisons'' between her and twin sister, Lorna, 46, a civil servant.

She said: "My sister got all of the attention at school. She was always the skinny one whereas I felt like the fat one.

"I was the ugly betty that no boys wanted. I always compared us because of the comments. I became extremely self-conscious."

(Image: Judith Magill / SWNS)

Her issues continued after having three children, Ruby, 20, Toby, 12 and Lydia, nine, with partner, Brian Magill, 57, a lecturer. After every pregnancy, Judith attempted a variety of diets and weight clubs to shift the pounds.

She said: "I kept looking up online the fastest ways to lose weight. I wanted instant results. I kept joining weight Facebook groups, but they didn't work because it was only focused on one weigh in.''

But, instead of losing weight, each failed diet would lead to a binge of high-fat foods like chips, burgers and pizza.

Judith continued: "I was stuck in a rotation of diets. But every diet would lead to more weight gain. I felt like I kept failing. Everything felt out of reach and impossible.

"I felt so sick seeing that picture, I looked unhealthy and felt really shocked. Literally the next day I joined a gym and began calorie counting and cutting out fatty foods.

''After that I got into a routine and seeing the weight drop off me spurred me along. I went to the gym every day for three years without fail."

(Image: Judith Magill / SWNS)

She continued: "I started feeling so good and I never wanted to reach for the fatty foods. I even felt 20 years younger.

"I didn't need a new diet, I needed consistency. I looked back and I couldn't find any photos with my kids.

"Now I'm begging others to take a photo of us. I never had energy for my kids or friends, now I'm the first one up for the day. I've become a better mum, and I've never felt prettier."

Judith's old diet

Breakfast – nothing

Lunch – scones, coffee, buns, biscuits

Dinner – chippy, KFC and burgers

Snacks – sausage rolls, biscuits, chocolate

Drinks – fizzy drinks

Judith's new diet

Breakfast – yoghurt, fruit and scrambled egg

Lunch – shredded chicken salad

Dinner – homemade meals, shepherd's pie, chicken roasts

Drinks – lots of water with sugar-free squash

Want all the biggest Lifestyle news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Hot Topics newsletter