Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

One The Traitors star has reportedly turned down a huge sum and a chance to appear on Celebrity Big Brother.

The Sun reported that an insider has said: “Just like his time on the whodunnit show, he is being incredibly shrewd about every move he makes and wants to play the long game. He’s made not bones about the fact that he fancies doing reality TV and although he was incredibly flattered by the offer, Celebrity Big Brother didn’t feel like the right project for him.”

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Kim Cattrall's forgotten Sex And The City lesbian romance and that bathtub scene

ITV would have paid Harry a massive £250,000, which is over double the £95,150 he took home from his time on The Traitors. According to reports, the former army lance corporal has had a number of project offers from big names and has now signed under InterTalent.

(Image: BBC/Studio Lamberty/Paul Chappells)

The source continued: “He’s now got expert guidance from one of the best talent agencies in the country after having no less than 16 companies approach him to broker deals on his behalf.” Since his stint on the BBC competition show, which saw him win completely solo after fooling his final teammate Molly, Harry has decided to leave the army.

(Image: PA)

Following this decision, Clarke confessed: “I want to do panto as an evil villain. I want to do a celebrity boxing fight, panel shows and more reality TV and I would love to do Strictly. To go on I’m A Celeb after The Traitors would be incredible. I would love the trials just like I love The Traitors’ missions.”

(Image: PA)

Harry made it through to the final with co-stars Molly and Jaz, the latter of whom has just landed an impressive presenting gig with This Morning. He quickly became a fan favourite after sniffing out all the clues and earned the name Jazatha Christie - the ITV show played into the affectionate nickname and asked the star to present a documentary about Agatha Christie herself.

In the video, Singh travels to the writer’s birthplace of Torquay after receiving a Traitors-style letter asking him to embark on the journey. Jaz cheekily joked that he “thought he was getting murdered again”.

Have you joined Threads? Follow Daily Star to keep up to date on all things showbiz here