Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

F1 have released a statement regarding Christian Horner on Saturday as the investigation into the Red Bull boss continues.

A statement read: “We have noted Red Bull has instigated an independent investigation into internal allegations at Red Bull Racing. We hope matter will be clarified at earliest opportunity, after a fair and thorough process. Will not comment further at this time."

The Brit, 50, has been the team principal of Red Bull since 2005 and has led their Formula One team to 13 world titles, including three straight Drivers' Championships won by Max Verstappen.

READ MORE: Christian Horner investigated by Red Bull over allegations of inappropriate behaviour

READ MORE: Timeframe for Red Bull’s Christian Horner investigation as talks with team officials begin

Join the Daily Star's WhatsApp for the sexiest headlines, showbiz gossip and lots more The Daily Star is now on WhatsApp and we want you to join us! Through the app, we'll send you the sassiest showbiz stories, some naught headline and a seismic smattering of aliens...along with the latest breaking news of course. To join our community, all you have to do to join is click on this link, select 'Join Chat' and you're in! No one will be able to see who has sign up and no one can send messages except for the Daily Star team. We also treat our community members to competitions, special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don’t like our community, you can check out any time you like. To leave our community click on the name at the top of your screen and choose Exit group. If you’re curious, you can read our Privacy Notice. CLICK HERE TO JOIN

Horner is subject of an internal investigation by Red Bull following allegations of inappropriate behaviour.

The energy drinks company released a statement regarding the allegations against Horner, which he vehemently denies, on Monday (February 5), announcing they had opened an internal investigation.

(Image: PA)

"After being made aware of certain recent allegations, the company launched an independent investigation," the statement read.

"This process, which is already underway, is being carried out by an external specialist barrister. The company takes these matters extremely seriously and the investigation will be completed as soon as practically possible. It would not be appropriate to comment further at this time."

The F1 season is set to start in less than two weeks, with Red Bull's Max Verstappen starting the defence of his Drivers World Championship in the Middle East at the Bahrain International Circuit.

According to reports from The Race, the investigation might still be ongoing when the drivers line up on the grid at the start of March.