Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Share your email to get soaps interviews, spoilers from the Star

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Share your email to get soaps interviews, spoilers from the Star

Former Neighbours star Caitlin Stasey has made a surprising career change from acting – to porn.

Now 33, the actress shot to fame on the iconic Aussie soap as Rachel Kinski when she was just 14 years old. Fans will recall that Rachel was the youngest daughter of Alex Kinski and sister of Zeke and Katya Kinski.

But in 2009, Caitlin said her goodbyes to Ramsay Street and left the soap. She has since starred in movies like smash hit horror movie Smile, and the recent Amazon comedy TV show Class Of ‘07.

READ MORE: Neighbours star completely unrecognisable in rare sighting after moving to live on farm

READ MORE: Want more showbiz? Daily Star has just the thing for you!

However, in 2021, Caitlin opted for a career change when she confirmed she was taking a hiatus from acting. Instead, she chose to venture out into the over 18s industry.

(Image: Fremantle Media)

Caitlin is now a director and writer at the female-owned pornography studio Afterglow. Speaking to Women’s Wear Daily at the time, she said: “It’s a queer-run and operated company. It’s a very cool group of women making some very good stuff.”

And last year, she opened up about what it’s like to work in the adult world. She told the I've Got News for You podcast: “The content is pretty intense.

“But it runs just like any other film set. The sets tend to be really inclusive. There's a lot of women,” she added. Caitlin went on: “There’s a lot of women. In fact, I think there are more female directors in pornography than there are in mainstream film and television.”

She also revealed how she found inspiration for a lesbian porn film from perfume adverts on the telly. Caitlin said: “You know whenever you watch a commercial for a perfume and you’re like, ‘this makes zero sense!’

(Image: five)

“It feels like they’re written by an algorithm on another planet. But they’re always so sexy and it always feels like sex is about to happen – everyone’s sniffing each other’s necks and licking each other’s wrists’, she quipped.

Caitlin added: “So I kind of came up with the concept of a perfume commercial that then becomes a lesbian threesome.”

(Image: WireImage)

Have you joined Threads? Follow Daily Star to keep up to date on all things showbiz here.

Caitlin has also spoken out about how the adult industry has been the ideal place to perfect her storytelling and directing skills. She previously told Contents: “I want to become a better director and learn how to make things that look beautiful and feel good.

"So that one day I can learn how to make things that are ugly and don’t. She added: “You know, real cinema where there is no joy! Porn is a great place to get your visual bearings.”

For more of the latest showbiz and TV news from the Daily Star, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters here.