Love Island's latest twist has come after one couple faced some serious challenges.

Anton Danyluk and Toby Aromolaran have a heart-to-heart after things with Georgia Harrison took a turn the night before. Anton opened up to Toby and he was reminded that you face the "good and the bad" in the villa.

Anton told him: "I feel like a lot of it, I've just been holding it in for weeks and it all came out last night." While Toby said: "You do have to depend on your couple in here a lot of the time. To be your rock, your person you can lean on..."

READ MORE: Love Island legend unrecognisable as he shows swollen head after hair transplant

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

It followed another row between Georgia and Anton after she commented on his kiss. He fumed at her and told her to kiss someone else, prompting Georgia to tell him he'd been "rude".

(Image: ITV)

A row then ensued in bed as things became intense between the pair, but it sounds like their timing couldn't be any worse.

In a fresh twist for Love Island UK, the axed All Stars islanders will be heading back into the villa. Their return was teased on Friday night, but fans are yet to find out exactly what they're there for.

The girls were chatting when suddenly they saw all their old mates coming back in. A shocked Molly said: "Oh my God, my heart is pounding."

Then Georgia H got a text that made everyone's jaws drop. She read out loud, "Islanders, please gather around the fire pit immediately."

Georgia H knew something massive was coming, saying, "Guys, I think whatever's about to happen is going to be savage."

Fans immediately rushed to X to share their theories as to why ex islanders are returning, with one user writing: "What if the previously dumped islanders are coming back because it will be down to THEM to decide which two couples get dumped before the finale?"

(Image: ITV)

Another said: "Past islanders coming back and potentially bring up the public opinion on cal & molly even more and also tell Molly it was cal idea of the dog toy… wait we might be back."

A third said: "Dumped islanders are coming back ?? Maybe they’ll vote for the couples who deserves the final spot?"

The final airs tomorrow night, so only four couples can remain - which means it will be curtains for some couples, but what will the ex islanders have to say?

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.