Dancing on Ice stars Ricky Norwood and Ryan Thomas has been faced with a major blow ahead of the live show.

The two celebrities will take to the ice once again on Sunday (February 18) evening with their professional partners as they continue to compete to be crowned the 2024 series champion.

However, dance expert Dr Jill Rose Jacobs has admitted that she doesn't think either Ricky or Ryan "are contenders to win the show" and will "both be eliminated over the next two weeks".

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

Speaking to Daily Star on behalf of Heart Bingo, Dr Jill said: "Either Ricky Norwood or Ryan Thomas – and both will be eliminated over the next two weeks. Because Miles Nazaire and Greg Rutherford are so strong, I don’t see where Ricky and Ryan – and eventually Eddie Edwards – can really go from here in the show. I don’t think anyone of them are contenders to win the show, so they’re all going to go eventually.

(Image: PA)

"For me, Eddie is doing a great job with his transference of skill, but I don’t think he can harness the upper body strength required. That’s going to affect the partnering that will get him those big scores further down the line and make his performances super exciting. I think he’s going to realise that soon and when he does his confidence level will not be where it needs to be for him to win the competition."

Dr Jill was went on to discuss what factors it takes to win the ITV show, and she emphasised how the best dancer in the series doesn’t necessarily always win, which is a warning to West End star Amber Davies. She explained: "Amber is a figure skater and has experience with dancing, and I know there are a lot of people who say that people like her shouldn’t be on the show because she has an advantage, but the best dancer doesn’t always win.

(Image: Kieron McCarron/ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

"There needs to be a story which people can connect with. Do people like the person? Then there’s a strategy between the couples – how are we going to play this story? How is this perceived in the show? In some cases there might even be coaches for this strategy. Then, there’s just sheer luck – you fall, you get put in a costume where you don’t look attractive, your costume affects your artistry and sabotages your confidence on the ice.

"As a performer, I’ve had costumes like this in the past. I saw that a little bit with Roxy Shahidi’s skirt that she had on, she looked like she was afraid of her partner not getting a good grip on her and it affected her performance. There are other things which affect it and can cut the contestant’s confidence.

(Image: Kieron McCarron/ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

“We know what it feels like to go out in public and not feel confident – maybe you’ve made a mistake with your clothing or haircut – we’ve all been there. If they have to think about things like that when they’re performing, it affects how good they look on the ice and ultimately decreases their chances of winning, no matter what their backstory is."

Dancing on Ice airs Sundays on ITV1 and ITVX

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter