Marvin Humes has joked that the JLS condoms "didn't really work" as he opened up on his family life.

Back In 2010, Marvin and his band members Aston Merryfold, JB Gill and Oritse Williams did their bit for the lovers – and charity – when their foundation teamed up with Durex for the Just Love Safe campaign.

The group worked with sexual health charities to raise awareness of practising safe sex and family planning. Each coloured box, which was adorned with individual members' faces, featured condoms that were "slightly thicker" and had "extra lubrication" compared to the average condom.

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

On Saturday (February 17), Aston made his debut as guest host on Heart 00s, whilst regular host Ashley Roberts was on holiday and hr was also joined virtually by friend and fellow bandmate Marvin. During their chat, Marvin joked "the JLS condoms didn’t really work" as him and Aston discussed their home life with "kids flying around".

(Image: thisisheart/Instagram)

Ashton said: "Between us all now the JLS family... we have got a lot of children." Marvin agreed: "Yeah lots bro.. the JLS condoms didn't really work did they.." Ashton continued: "They really did not work ...well they did. They definitely did. Marvin replied: "They didn't work for us. We didn't take our own advice, bro."

Aston said: "Well, we did because it was time to settle down and have families. But obviously listen as I said there's a lot of kids flying around and I'm thinking it might be time for JLS juniors? Like my kids are absolutely obsessed with all the naughties JLS hits, your kids I know they do love a JLS show right?

(Image: ExpressStar)

Marvin , who shares three children with wife Rochelle Humes, said: "They love it bro like obviously my eldest is 11 [years old] in May and she just about remembers us first time around but second time around bro she's like the biggest fan like all of the songs." Aston also addressed the viral moment he failed a backflip on stage during a tour show. He said: "I suppose I do have to talk about this tonight. I have to talk about. There is a video that went a little bit viral... a couple months ago. I think a couple of people may have seen it. But I feel like I have to talk about it in tonight’s show.

"I should really explain myself. I haven't really told anybody this and what kind of happened. The backflip that went wrong on the JLS tour. Let's really talk about this between me and you. Let's talk about this..

(Image: Instagram)

"So, I'm getting ready.... the hits are going... the songs in full motion. JB does his thing and Marv [Marvin] does his thing. Then Oritsé does his thing. And I don't normally do that move. But I think it was the very last show on the tour and I got so excited. I went 'Ah let's just give them a backflip from the top step... three steps up' Yeah, in the dark. When the smoke had been going off. Floor was very slippery...what happens? Cocky and confident didn't I got up there and went back. 'I've been doing backflips for years'.

"I've probably done about 18,664 and 65 went very very wrong. Yeah, just jumped up. Left foot was totally fine. That lifted me up, right foot slipped down hit the other step and the flaming legs and the arms….like a cartoon moment were really really going for it and I paid for it with a viral clip... so yeah, thank you to whoever put that up from the very top seat got the actual perfect view... bird's eye view I must say, and a viral sensation I was for a good few months. I actually think Snoop Dogg reposted it on his Instagram. Somewhat embarrassing. But I have been working on backflips so don't worry I am good... my back is a lot stronger for it."

Listen to Heart 00s on DAB digital radio right across the UK on D1 and on Global Player , the official Heart app

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter