Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

One Love Island couple has been dumped days before the grand final.

Two stars have already left the villa and their emotional goodbye will air during Sunday's (February 18) penultimate episode of the ITV2 dating show.

It has been reported that the contestants, who are said to be "fan favourites", were gutted to come to close to the end and to be sent packing before the last day.

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

An insider told The Sun: "Bosses often like to reserve one last twist before the final and, true to form, they saved one last brutal elimination for the last weekend of the series. There were lots of tears shed as the pair said goodbye to their fellow villa residents. Even though they will all be reunited again on Monday night for the final, they've all grown so close and no one wants to leave at this stage, especially so close to the end."

(Image: ITV Grab)

The remaining All Stars couples on the show are Georgia Harrison and Anton Danyluk, Molly Smith and Tom Clare, Georgia Steel and Toby Aromolaran, Callum Jones and Jess Gale, Arabella Chi and Adam Maxted and Sophie Piper and Joshua Ritchie. Monday (February 19) night's grand final will see one lucky winning couple crowned by host Maya Jama.

(Image: ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

All 13 axed stars will return to the villa during Sunday's episode episode of the series. to share their opinions on the final couples. They have all flown back out to Cape Town where they'll join Maya to find out who will be named the All Stars champions. Jake Cornish is smaking a return to South Africa, despite quitting the villa just days after the series launched.

(Image: ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

The winners will following in Jess Harding and Sammy Root in footsteps, who won the last series. However, unfortunately, they split just three months after the final. Georgia H and Anton clashed during the end of Friday's episode so will this mark the end of their time as being "exclusive" in the villa?

Love Island All Stars airs nightly on ITV2 and ITVX at 9pm

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter