Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

A British man jailed in a hellhole Siberian prison is "clearly next" on Vladimir Putin's hit list, according to an expert.

Last Friday (February 16) Russian opposition leader and long-time Putin critic Alexei Navalny died in prison.

Russian authorities claimed Navalny suffered "sudden death syndrome". Navalny’s spokesperson claimed he was "murdered" and reports today suggest his body was spotted in a morgue covered in bruises.

READ MORE: Navalny's body smuggled out of Arctic prison in dead of night by mysterious motorcade

Click for the latest news coming out of Russia.

There are now concerns for Vladimir Kara-Murza, 42, who was sentenced to 25 years in prison last year on trumped up treason charges. Kara-Murza, who holds both British and Russian passports, was an opposition political activist in Moscow.

(Image: AFP via Getty Images)

Kara-Murza was outspoken against the war in Ukraine and was a close aide to Boris Nemtsov, a politician who was shot dead in Moscow in 2015. Dr Stepan Stepanenko, head of the Forward Strategy foreign policy think-tank, reckons it is "clear" that Kara-Murza - who grew up and studied in Britain - is "next" on Putin's kill list.

He told The Sun: "Vladimir Kara-Murza is imprisoned on false charges, he is very ill and following Navalny, it is clear that he is next.

(Image: Getty Images)

"He may even die before he is murdered. Kara-Murza's battle is not just against his captors but against time itself. Stricken with polyneuropathy, the grim reality is that he may never reunite with his family."

Kara-Murza survived two poisonings in 2015 and 2017, leaving him with a nerve disorder. His wife spoke out over the weekend following the Navalny news, saying her "husband's life is in danger".

(Image: AFP via Getty Images)

Evgenia told the BBC: "I have been afraid for my husband's life since at least 2015, since that first call that I received about Vladimir collapsing in Moscow and going into [a] coma with multiple organ failure for no reason at all.

"I've been sleeping with my phone since, dreading yet another call of that sort. I believe that my husband's life is in danger, as are the lives of many other political prisoners in Russian prisons."

For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.