Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sian Welby has revealed that former This Morning host Holly Willoughby used to help her out on the set of the ITV show.

Holly stepped down from her role on the ITV daytime show in October last year, explaining that she made the choice "for me and my family". Sian, 37, stepped in to present the show last month, prompting many to believe the Capital Breakfast star would replace Holly as host.

And she couldn't speak highly enough of Holly, who has just returned to TV to host Dancing on Ice with Stephen Mulhern. Speaking to HELLO! at the TV Choice Awards last week, Sian said Holly was "so lovely" to her when she presented competition segments on the show.

READ MORE: Sian Welby breaks silence on Holly Willoughby's TV exit after This Morning stint

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

"All I know is that Holly was just the nicest person to me," she explained. "When I was doing those segments, she always made me feel welcome. She'd always give me the little 'hello' before I'd walk in.

(Image: Gareth Cattermole/Getty Images)

"It's quite a daunting thing coming onto a live set and she'd always be like, 'You alright, Sian? How's it been?'. She was always just so lovely to me."

Sian went on to praise This Morning's "warm" and "supportive" team. She said: "That team is just honestly amazing," adding: "They were so kind. I've got nothing but nice things to say because I've had a lovely experience".

(Image: Kieron McCarron/ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

She told Daily Star at the event that she she'd missed seeing Holly being on TV. "I think everyone's just glad to see her back on TV," she said. "We love her, we miss her, the UK loves her".

Complimenting Holly's dazzling ice rink outfits, Sian added: "I think she looked gorgeous. [I'm a] massive fangirl."

(Image: Ken McKay/ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

Sian hosted This Morning for the first time on January 22nd alongside Dermot O'Leary. Speaking about her stint on her Capital show, she said: "Honestly, probably the best week of my life!

"I was on This Morning, I can't believe they sort of gave me the reins to co-host with Dermot O'Leary who I've been watching for most of my life, X Factor, Big Brother, he's a legend. So for me it was quite nerve wracking because you’re stepping into a show that everyone knows and loves and has their favourites"

Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories