Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Love Island star Jamie Jewitt has opted for a hair transplant as part of a new makeover.

The former Islander has since showed off his swollen head following the cosmetic procedure. The series two star shot to fame on the ITV dating show where he found the love of his life Camilla Thurlow.

Jamie posted a series of snaps to his Instagram Stories as he updated fans on the start of his image re-vamp. The 2017 star had to shave his head ahead of the transplant and showed his followers the after pictures.

READ MORE: Love Island's Hannah Elizabeth admits she 'flipped' at girls several times

READ MORE: Love Island fans spot sign Georgia S is 'settling' with Toby and fancies someone else

The TV star went to get the procedure done at the British Hair Clinic. He could be seen flashing a smile to the camera as he posed with bandages on his head.

(Image: Jamie Jewitt/Instagram)

Captioning the pic, Jamie wrote: "All done! British Hair Clinic you were awesome." Later in the day, he jokingly compared his head to a dolphin as he uploaded a picture of him showing off his current side profile. This time he penned: "Day 1 swelling."

Last year, Jamie revealed that he was keen to revamp his look and also lose some weight so he could fee like a better dad to his three kids. Meanwhile, Jamie has been busy revamping his image after admitting he needed to lose weight to become a better dad. He currently shares two children with his Love Island co-star wife Camilla but has another on the way.

(Image: Jamie Jewitt/Instagram)

In 2022, he told The Sun: "Honestly my life changed most when I became a parent as I stopped putting myself and my health first. I've always exercised so I have to admit it was mainly diet that I began struggling with, being a parent for the first time quick and easy foods are what I got used to choosing.

(Image: camillathurlow/Instagram)

"I also felt that after a crazy busy day I just wanted to treat myself and eat what I liked! This all ended up creating a habit of ignoring self-care and I slowly lost the discipline I once had when it came to food."

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.