Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

For the latest from the pitch sign up for our football newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

For the latest from the pitch sign up for our football newsletter

A Premier League star’s home was reportedly taken over by a criminal gang who turned it into a cannabis factory.

The unnamed footballer owns an empire of houses in the north west of England which they let out. One of their properties was raided by police, who found it was being used to grow weed.

The house in question, which was managed by the footballer’s family member, was rented out to a female tenant. And police discovered after the raid that a gang had forced her to let them grow cannabis on the premises.

A source told The Sun: “This player owns the house in the North West as part of a buy-to-let empire. Another family member manages the properties but they couldn’t believe it when cops found a large-scale cannabis farm.

(Image: Getty Images)

“The plants were taken away and destroyed and the player had to show paperwork to prove that while he was the owner of the property, he had someone else living in it.”

The gang’s activity left the tenant surrounded by hundreds of the plants. She was released without charge after police decided she had been set up.

This article contains affiliate links, we will receive a commission on any sales we generate from it. Learn more Where to watch Premier League Darts Now Sports Membership Get access to all 11 Sky Sports channels, including 7 day free trial of Boost for you to stream the big event in Full HD. You can cancel the membership anytime. Boost auto-renews after your 7 day free trial at £6 a month, unless cancelled. New Boost members only. £34.99 per month, or £11.99 for 24 hours access NOW Buy Now Sky Sports Get all 8 dedicated sports channels, including Premier League, Action & Arena and more. Now only £22 extra a month for 18 months Requires Sky Q & Sky TV. Price guaranteed for entire 18-month minimum term £22 Sky Buy Now

The Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 states production and possession of with the intent to supply is a that can result in up to 14 years in. And the footballer likewise had to prove his innocence to avoid charges, with landlords who fail to report suspicions of illegal activity also liable and at risk of facing the same penalty.

It comes amid a growing problem with regards to home cannabis farms in the UK. Over 1,000 homes were raided in June, which led to £130million of the plants being seized and 1,000 suspects being arrested.