Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get the best celeb gossip with the Daily Star Showbiz newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get the best celeb gossip with the Daily Star Showbiz newsletter

She rarely goes a week without delighting her loyal legion of fans with another jaw-dropping clip on our Instagram feeds.

And Friday’s (February 16) post was no different when Khloe Kardashian decided to melt the internet all over again with her latest glamorous display. The reality TV star, 39, sent temperatures soaring when she poured her killer curves into a sheer silver gown which struggled to contain her ample assets.

The jaw-dropping dress featured a dramatic thigh-high slit that gave fans an eyeful of her endless legs. The wrinkled dress hugged her hourglass frame and celebrated her toned physique as she posed up a storm for the camera.

READ MORE: North West, 10, shares drawing of step-mom wearing loincloth as Kim rushes to delete it

READ MORE:Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

In the clip, Khloe was seen getting her hair brushed and her makeup touched up as she worked her best angles for her adoring followers. She styled her honey blonde tresses into loose beachy waves which cascaded over her shoulders and down her back.

(Image: Khloe Kardashian/Instagram)

The mum-of-two opted for a full face of makeup which celebrated her youthful glow with a pinch of blush on the apples of her cheeks and a pinch of bronzer on the high points of her face.

She added a soft wash of brown eyeshadow on her lids which she teamed with lashings of black mascara as she threw a sultry look to the camera. To complete the look, the star added a swipe of nude pink lipstick which she outlined with a soft pink lip liner.

In the clip, Khloe added a hilarious soundbite to the video from her sister Kourtney Kardashian, 44, as she mouthed along to the words. She said: “Just like that effortless look, but it’s really a lot of effort.

(Image: Khloe Kardashian/Instagram)

The doting mum captioned the glam clip: “Gracias @kourtneykardashian wise words.” It didn’t take long before her famous friends and supportive fans showered her with compliments online.

Her older sister Kourtney wrote: “I have the wisest words my effortless queen sister” as her pal Serena Williams gushed: “Fillllyyy.” Paris Halton chimed in with: “Stunning” while another friend echoed: “My goodnesssssss WHAT A BABE.”

Selling Sunset’s Christel Stause echoed: “Ahhhh I’ve worn this dress. LOVE.” as her former co-star Christine Quinn called Khloe “Iconiqueeee.”

(Image: Khloe Kardashian/Instagram)

It comes after the doting mum took to her Instagram Stories to share several snaps of her lavish Valentine’s Day gift baskets she had made for her numerous nieces and nephews. The first snap showed five baskets for her nieces filled with large pink pillows in the shape of a heart.

Other gifts in the baskets included bedazzled cups, fluffy pens, pink calculators and chocolates. She captioned the post: “I absolutely love making holiday baskets for all my nieces and nephews.

“Valentine’s Day is such a sweet and happy holiday. It makes creating these baskets so fun and filled with love.” The next snap showed the gifts for her nephews, which included ‘Mama’s Boy’ hats, teddy bears and chocolates.

(Image: Instagram)

Khloe explained: “Boys stuff Valentine’s Day is a little harder to find, but I try to personalize according to the ages. The boys are too cool for some of the traditional stuff.”

The Good American founder then shared her excitement to plan for Easter months in advance. She went on: “Now I have to start thinking of things for Easter baskets... 13 boys and girls of all different ages... I’m open to ideas.”

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.