Josie Gibson showed off her new look as she returned to host ITV's This Morning.

The 39-year-old presenter was back on the famous blue sofa with Craig Doyle on Monday (February 19) and viewers quickly noticed her glamorous new darker blonde hairdo which she unveiled on social media the night before.

She dressed to impress in a long sleeved marble print top and a slim fit pair of black trousers, which she teamed with pointed white heels. Josie was back on the daytime show for the first time after posting a cryptic message about "drama" and "disrespect".

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

On Friday (February 16) , Cat Deeley and Ben Shephard were unveiled as the new permanent hosts of This Morning. They are set to make their debut next month, following the exit of Holly Willoughby and Phillip Schofield. Last month, Josie spoke about speculation over her whereabouts after fans wondered if had she quit the show.

(Image: Ken McKay/ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

She shared to Instagram: "Alreeet lovers, Just to confirm, I have not left This Morning. I keep getting asked why I've left, so I thought it's easier to clear up the rumour mill on here. I am eternally grateful for all your love and support and I can not thank you enough."

However, during her time away from This Morning, Josie posted a number of cryptic posts, including some thoughts about taking space away from "drama". She posted a quote on her Instagram Story which read: '"The older you get the more you choose calm over conflict and distance over disrespect.

Hair products Hair Gain Capsules The unique formula combines the clinically-tested AnaGain ingredient with essential hair vitamins and minerals that contribute to the maintenance of normal hair. Backed by trichologists, the capsules also support normal collagen formation as well as the health of the skin and nails. £29.59 Hair Gain Buy Now Hair Gain Hair Mask Designed for all hair types and conditions, this advanced formula also contains Natural Betamine to strengthen the hair and Phytantriol to provide extra protection against heat damage, split ends and colour fading £25.60 Hair Gain Buy Now Rosemary Oil for Hair Growth The hair growth oil activates your hair follicles and boosts your hair growth. Rosemary hair growth oil works effectively by naturally activating dormant hair follicle germ tissue on the scalp. Good for stopping thinning hair and treating alopecia, make it grow faster and thicker. £14.99 Elbbub Buy Now UKLash Hair Shampoo Quench your hair with our nourishing hair growth shampoo. Pineapple and amino acids stimulate the scalp while panthenol strengthens from the roots allowing your locks to grow long and healthy. Reparative qualities of wheat protein and coconut help to fuse and lock strands together, rejuvenating your hair from over-styling and excessive heat £13.99 UKLash Buy Now

"Drama becomes intolerant to you and your peace becomes your ultimate priority. You start surrounding yourself with people who are good for your mental health, heart and soul." The mum-of-one quickly later deleted the quote from her page. A source told OK!: "Josie wears her heart on her sleeve and sometimes does things - like post on her social media - as a knee-jerk reaction without thinking. Then she thinks about it afterwards.

(Image: ITV)

"She was likely hoping that she'd come out of the jungle and be the automatic choice for the top job at This Morning after Holly left. But ITV are still trying people out. Josie is turning her back on the drama and the This Morning hurt from Holly leaving."

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter