Ben Foden and his wife Jackie have welcomed their second child together, a baby girl.

The couple shared the happy news with OK! magazine, revealing that baby Olympia was born on January 9. Ben and Jackie, who tied the knot in August 2019, are also parents to three-year-old Farrah.

Ben has two more children, Aoife, 11, and Tadgh, eight, from his previous relationship with Una Healy. In an interview, Ben discussed his joy at becoming a father again and his co-parenting arrangement with Una.

READ MORE: Una Healy admits she 'rushed' into David Haye 'throuple' as she 'needed love'

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

Jackie also shared her relief at Olympia's safe arrival after experiencing several pregnancy losses in the past. "After the third, we kept thinking, 'We'll see if it happens – if it does, it does and if it doesn't, it doesn't.'

(Image: Instagram/snackyjax)

"It's hard not to get your hopes up when you really want another baby. My mum then had a hunch that my progesterone levels were off, which they were, and I was quickly put on supplements and got my bloods monitored."

She further explained: "I have something called marginal cord insertion, which means the umbilical cord implanted in the wrong area, and makes the pregnancy higher risk. So going forward, we need to make especially sure the baby is growing at the correct rate."

Be said: "Olympia – or, as we call her, Pia – is her mum’s double. I’m incredibly lucky," as Jackie added: "I tried to wait as long as possible but the doctors advised me that 9 January was as far as I could go. Looking back, I’m glad I didn’t wait any longer. She was 8lb 3oz; if we had let her go full-term they said she’d have been over 10lb!"

(Image: Instagram)

X Factor: Celebrity star Ben and Jackie made their love official just two weeks after getting together. When he broke the news on Instagram, he shared: "This last year has been by far my toughest and most turbulent for a number of reasons that many of you I'm sure are aware of, in some way or another."

"The world has a funny way of working things out, many people think I'm a bad person - as I'm sure they'll be many nasty comments left under this post by keyboard warriors a plenty. But I met a girl who seriously swept me off my feet and in a time of hardship showed me love, a deep devoted love.

"People will say we are mad or crazy or even fools, as @snackyjax and I had only been dating seriously for a little over 2 weeks before deciding to get married. But when someone like her comes in to your life, why would I wait?"

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.