Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Changing sex positions is one promising way to jazz things up between the sheets.

But it's no secret many Brits love to play it safe in the bedroom, and that's okay... If you like to stick to a routine, it could be worth trying a twist on your favourite move.

When it comes to favourites, the doggy style is up there. In fact, according to a study from last year, the move was named the world's most popular.

READ MORE: Join the Daily Star's WhatsApp for the sexiest headlines, showbiz gossip and lots more

You can read more lifestyle stories from Daily Star here.

It was down to boasting over 820,000 searches on average each month. So since it's a firm favourite, we thought to treat you to five variations of the move...

(Image: Getty Images/iStockphoto)

The Snake

The unique modification to the Doggy Style position can s-s-seriously turn up the heat between the sheets. To get into position, you have to lie down on your stomach with your hips slightly up.

Then allow your partner to lie down on top of you. Here they can slide into you from behind while holding onto your back or arms.

This angle is great to reach the front wall of the vagina. Although your lover is responsible for the thrusts, you can still move your butt to dictate the depth of penetration.

Good Doggy

Now with this saucy variation, it's more suitable for G-spot orgasms so saddle up! You have to get down on your knees, lower your torso until your chest touches the bed and raise your bum.

Your partner kneels behind and enters you from behind with their penis or strap-on. It promises G-spot stimulation then your lover can wrap their hands around your body to touch other areas.

Join the Daily Star's WhatsApp for the sexiest headlines, showbiz gossip and lots more The Daily Star is now on WhatsApp and we want you to join us! Through the app, we'll send you the sassiest showbiz stories, some naught headline and a seismic smattering of aliens...along with the latest breaking news of course. To join our community, all you have to do to join is click on this link, select 'Join Chat' and you're in! No one will be able to see who has sign up and no one can send messages except for the Daily Star team. We also treat our community members to competitions, special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don’t like our community, you can check out any time you like. To leave our community click on the name at the top of your screen and choose Exit group. If you’re curious, you can read our Privacy Notice. CLICK HERE TO JOIN

The Fire Hydrant

From doggy style, make sure you lift one of your legs up, while your partner slides their legs under yours. This position is great as the top can get extra deep.

And of course with any move, you can throw in a sex toy to really turn it up.

Standing Wheelbarrow

Okay this isn't the easiest position, but it promises a world of pleasure if you execute it correctly. It requires immense shoulder, core and glute strength to master.

Your partner will need to stand and hold your legs as you're on the floor in a plank-like position. Then they'll lift your legs off the ground and hold them at waist level.

Standing Dragon

It's like the doggy style sex position, but it takes you to another level of pleasure. Start by lying on your front and place a cushion or pillow under your pubic bone to elevate you.

You can spread your legs a little then your partner enters you from top. They'll have to move in a circular motion, rather than thrusting in and out.

Want all the biggest Lifestyle news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Hot Topics newsletter