Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

A man whose girlfriend's body was found decomposing in a suitcase two weeks after he fled is being hunted by Interpol.

The body of Laura Isabel Lopera Osorio was discovered after neighbours complained of a sickening smell coming from her apartment in Medellin, Colombia. Laura, 21, had been dating Canadian national Jesse Wiseman who is understood to have returned to North America soon after she was reported missing on January 31.

Colombian police have asked Interpol to issue an international Red Notice demanding his arrest. Medellin mayor Federico Gutierrez said: "Not another one. What sadness and pain it produces to know about another femicide. The victim is Laura Isabel Lopera, barely 20 years old."

READ MORE: 'My family were killed in plane crash so I hunted down man responsible and took revenge'

Check out more of the latest news stories from the Daily Star.

(Image: (Jesse Wiseman/Newsflash))

Wiseman is said to have met Laura three months ago. According to local media, the pair argued frequently.

Laura Isabel's older brother, Juan Manuel Lopera, claimed Wiseman did not like it when she went home to visit her family – who first met Wisemen when they invited her mum to a dinner. The family said the first impression they got of Wisemen was one of a "calm, serene and reserved man."

Juan added they only met Wiseman a maximum of three more times after the initial interaction. The sectional director of the Medellín Prosecutor's Office, Yiri Milena Amado, explained: "The investigation shows, according to his family and friends, that this person (Wiseman) was jealous and that in some way he exercised acts of violence."

The investigation is ongoing.

For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.