Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

A woman ditched her dream of being a vet to embark on a racy career - and she's since become a millionaire.

Manchester stunner, Ellie May, is bombarded with hundreds of steamy requests on a daily basis, generating the equivalent of £4,615 every day (or £576 per hour). The content creator, who works on Fanvue, claims she boasts a staggering income of £1.2million a year - just from selling explicit content to her fans.

The 20-year-old, who has over 204,000 followers on Instagram was scoring A*s at sixth form, but didn't feel like further education was for her. She decided to pursue a full-time career in sexy content – and hasn't looked back since.

READ MORE: 'I'm married but let hubby have oral sex with other women – it's empowering'

Read all the latest lifestyle news by the team at Daily Star

Currently Ellie’s average monthly intake of £100,000 is over 230% greater than an NHS junior doctor’s yearly intake of £29,300, and a starter teacher’s salary of £30,000. Top bankers at the UK’s five biggest banks also earn an average annual salary of £807,000, which pales in comparison to Ellie’s £1.2m.

She wants people to know you don't need a corporate job to rake in the money you deserve. For her, content creation is far more "expressive and fun" - and you can work anywhere you want in the world.

The only time she has to put on a suit to head to the office is if one of her saucy fans requests it.

(Image: Ellie May)

Speaking exclusively to Daily Star, Elie said: "I think there’s something empowering and freeing about taking pictures of your body, and expressing yourself in a way that suits you. We live in a generation of influencers and Instagrammers who are confident in their own skin, and show themselves unapologetically to the world.

"I suppose I was inspired by that, and I certainly want other women to be inspired by me too. Plus, the pay check isn’t too bad either!"

Reflecting on her school days, she added: "Just like everyone else my age in the UK, I was taking GCSEs in a range of subjects at school. Though, overall, I had a pretty big interest in English and science, and initially had dreams of becoming a veterinary nurse.

"When it boils down to it though, being a veterinary nurse pays far less money than my current job, and I feel like it’s also a very emotionally draining job.

"It wouldn’t have given me the freedom to express myself so freely, and that is what I crave the most!"

(Image: Ellie May)

Ellie realised she could earn more money in the sexy role when she started looking at other girls on Fanvue and across social media. This helped her to understand what it takes to be an influencer and learnt that diversifying your content is really important.

She said it can be as simple as changing up your photo angles or documenting your travels across the world - she's learnt what makes her fanbase grow. Now, she's in a job which empowers her and given her a lot of financial freedom.

"The financial success I’ve had from posting content has given me so much independence while I’m still pretty young," she added. "This gives me the stability to pursue my passions, travel and grow at my own pace outside of work.

"The control I have over my life is more than what a boring old FTSE job could give me. I don’t want to toot my own horn, but I think I’ve been pretty successful.

"Thanks to this work I’ve made £1.2m in a year, and I’ve racked up a pretty large fanbase on Fanvue and Instagram. I’ve bought all the things I once dreamed of buying too - properties, cars and plane tickets to so many places.

"It has given me the freedom to invest, and learn more about what I can actually do with my money."

Want all the biggest Lifestyle news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Hot Topics newsletter