Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

A healthcare worker whose raunchy videos have been viewed a staggering 454million times says she never used to be body confident.

Serenity Cox, from Toronto, Canada, was recently named as Pornhub’s Amateur Model of the Year after she started exploring her wilder side in her 30s.

Her kinky adventures were inspired when she opened up her marriage and began filming her sexploits - all while retaining her traditional career in healthcare.

READ MORE: 'I bonked three Premier League players who were either married or engaged – I love men'

And during an interview with Daily Star, we asked her if she was ever reluctant to get naked on camera and said: “I think coming into the adult industry in my mid 30s I had less fear.

(Image: Serenity Cox)

“I have a loving supportive partner and I was already well established financially and professionally prior to joining this industry and I have a greater sense of confidence and openness about my body now than when I was younger.

“By showing my face and body in adult scenarios I am able to portray the joy and fun I’m experiencing and hopefully inspire others to find joy in their sex lives.”

Serenity, who is now 39, added: “My younger self would be a little shocked to say the least [if she could see me now]. I was not always the most body confident or outgoing person.

“This is something I learned later on in life and I’m fortunate to have learned to love myself fully and enjoy sharing that love with others.”

(Image: Serenity Cox)

Her content being viewed hundreds of millions of times has changed Serenity’s life but she continues to work her old job - albeit on reduced hours. She said this was important for her identity despite her racy bedroom antics earning her much more money.

Serenity was also recently nominated for an AVN award but said experiencing these successes alongside her husband was what makes her happy.

She said: “The best part about my job is that I share it with my husband. We come up with ideas together. He films and edits and we have a blast creating this business documenting our experiences together.

(Image: Serenity Cox)

“Another amazing part of the job is being able to communicate with viewers through platforms such as OnlyFans. The incredibly positive and encouraging messages I receive daily remind me how much reach my content has and how important it is to portray my passions and values in an accurate way.”

The brunette beauty, who has been honest with her supportive family about her profitable side hustle, also wants to prove it is a misconception that women join the sex industry out of desperation.

And there’s many people like her who do it to promote sex positivity and sexual health in a shame free way.