Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

A British man has been arrested on suspicion of punching an a flight attendant and vandalising an airplane toilet in mid-air.

Other passengers were reportedly forced to step in as the unnamed man, 35, allegedly wreaked havoc on the Thai Airways flight from Bangkok to Heathrow on Wednesday (February 14). Upon landing in London, the shirtless man was arrested on suspicion of grievous bodily harm and endangering an aircraft.

Footage emerged of the alleged incident which appears to show the man hitting the steward so hard he fell to the floor. The woman who recorded the alleged attack on her phone said: "He was in the toilet and he started screaming and shouting.

(Image: SWNS)

"He started smashing the door and it came away from the hinges. An older guy in the white T-shirt tried to get him out. A fight broke out and he ended up smacking the flight attendant. I think he broke his nose."

Passengers were also reportedly warned the flight might have to divert to Dubai if the man didn't calm down, but fortunately the plane was able to continue on its journey. The woman added: "Two passengers sat either side of him and kept pulling him down.

(Image: SWNS)

"We had to put up with his shouting," she alleged. "He was being very verbally abusive. It was rough. People were swapping seats and moving kids to the back of the plane. (Upon landing) the police came on and got him off."

Police say the man was taken away after the flight landed, adding he remains in custody following the alleged incident. Another man was taken to hospital where his condition was assessed and found to be not life-threatening, a statement from officers stated.

The Met Police said: "We met the aircraft on arrival and a 35-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of grievous bodily harm and endangering an aircraft. He remains in custody."

The statement continued: "Another man was taken to hospital. His condition was assessed as not life-threatening."

The Daily Star has contacted Thai Airways for comment.