Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

A suspected drug trafficker has gained an army of online fans offering to pay her bail after police shared her mugshot.

The glam suspect, 28, has been identified in local reports as Heidy Ulloa - known by her nickname 'La Garra', which means 'The Claw'. She is accused of being a member of MS-13, a drug trafficking gang operating across Central America and in the US.

La Garra was snared by police in San Pedro Sula, Honduras, last Friday (February 16). It is the third time she has been arrested on drug trafficking charges.

READ MORE: El Chapo's granddaughter spotted busking in streets of London as 'dream comes true'

Click for the latest gang-related news from the Daily Star.

(Image: Jam Press)

In her mugshot she appears alongside two police officers while wearing a revealing top, showing off her ample cleavage. Police shared the image of the busty suspect online - and it soon went viral. Some people even offered to stump up the cash to get her released.

One person said: "The suspect is a fine beautiful woman, I hope they let her go free." Another said: "Holy God, how beautiful she is."

A third said: "How much is the bond?" Another said: "She is so pretty." While a fifth commented: "I'll pay her bail so she can come live with me and not offend anymore."

(Image: centroamerica)

However, not everyone was so taken by La Garra's outfit. One woman commented online: "Women today have lost their worth. Give her what she deserves so she learns a lesson. Congrats to the police."

La Garra was found in possession of 120 packages of white powder, believed to be cocaine, and 20 transparent bags containing white rocks that were thought to be crack. Police also seized mobile phones, cash and bags of what was believed to be cannabis.

Police confirmed they previously nabbed La Garra for drug-related offences in both June and September 2022. Their investigation into her is still ongoing.

For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.