Happy Mondays frontman Shaun Ryder says his bond with best pal Bez is so strong that the Freaky Dancer would have sex with him.

Asked if he sees the maracas player – real name Mark Berry – as a brother, he said: "Yeah, of course he is. It is a sexless marriage. We have been together for 40 years. I am sure he would love sex with me, but I’m not too keen."

I'm A Celebrity star Ryder, 61, felt that his wild antics from drug use to alcohol poisoning would not be the death of him. Asked if he was shocked to be alive, he replied: "No, I used to think I was indestructible. I really did think that I can’t die and nothing can hurt me.

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

"So did I think I’d still be doing this now?. Yeah, I love what I do. I have hated work at times. That’s just natural. But once I’ve got into the music business, I wasn’t going anywhere." The Manchester Britpop legend says his biggest high today remains riding his bicycle He added: "I am still out on my bike. Yeah. As a kid I used to get about on a bike and then yeah, I’ve had bikes running through my life."

(Image: Ken McKay/ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

It comes after the Celebrity Gogglebox star said his bits are too shrivelled to appear on a celebrity version of controversial show Naked Attraction. There have been rumours the Channel 4 show, in which people strip before going on a date, is looking for stars to take part in a celebrity spin-off.

(Image: Internet Unknown)

But Ryder said if he was offered a part on the saucy programme he would have to turn it down. He said: "No way. You’re kidding. I mean look, if you’d have asked me in my twenties I’d have probably done it. But I ain’t going on a show like that at 61 with the f***ing shrivelled up f***ing things that I’ve got now. F*** that.

(Image: Getty Images)

"And with my alopecia there’s no foliage around it, which would help as apparently if you get rid of all your pubes it makes it look bigger." As lead singer of Happy Mondays, Ryder was a leading figure in the Madchester cultural scene during the late 1980s and early 1990s.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter