Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

For the latest from the pitch sign up for our football newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

For the latest from the pitch sign up for our football newsletter

Marcus Rashford's attempt at pressing in Manchester United's win over Luton has been condemned by fans.

The forward played the full 90 minutes in Sunday's (February 18) 2-1 victory at Kenilworth Road. It was United's fourth win in a row in the Premier League which brought them within three points of fifth-placed Tottenham Hotspur.

Rasmus Hojlund's early brace was enough to claim all three points, despite a second-half goal from Carlton Morris as the home side piled on the pressure later on in the match.

READ MORE: Erik ten Hag singles out three Man Utd stars for what they didn't do in Luton victory

READ MORE: Man Utd fans rejoice as transfer target reacts to being subbed in Bayern Munich defeat

This article contains affiliate links, we will receive a commission on any sales we generate from it. Learn more Watch football, F1, golf, tennis, cricket and more Get all the sport you could ever ask for Sky Sports is bringing you 500 live football games to watch, as well access to Cricket, Golf, F1, Boxing, NFL, NBA and more across eight dedicated channels. Sky Sports is the only way to watch all the action this year. £22 a month Sky Get it here

Ross Barkley almost secured a leveller in the final minutes when his header smacked against the post but the Red Devils managed to see out the testing clash.

Despite the important triumph, fans were disappointed with the work ethic of Rashford, as a clip of him attempting to press Barkley during the final minutes of the game went viral due to the lack of genuine effort to close down the ex-Everton star and prevent him from attacking the United goal.

How many more goals will Marcus Rashford score this season? Give us your thoughts in the comments section below

(Image: Sky Sports)

Fans on social media were incensed with Rashford's spiritless pressing attempts as one X (formerly Twitter) user wrote: "That's actually scandalous, imagine Klopp saw one of his players do that, If I was Utd I'd get rid of Rashford." While another commented: "Rashford is top class, but he needs a manager who's going to set him straight".

A third sarcastically said: "Top pressing by Rashford. Don’t know how Ross Barkley got past him" while a fourth remarked: "Would swap him for a bag of strawberry bon bons". It's been a season to forget for the England international who's scored five goals in all competitions in 30 games.

(Image: Sky Sports)

Luke Littler darts fans can back 'The Nuke' in Premier League with his playing shirt Luke Littler fans can now buy the 17-year-old's playing shirt to support him as he continues to demonstrate his talent in the Premier League. The darts sensation was only 16 when he wowed Alexandra Palace at the World Darts Championship (WDC), despite a final loss to Luke Humphries. The Nuke will continue playing against seven of the best dart players in the world — Humphries, Michael van Gerwen, Gerwyn Price, Michael Smith, Nathan Aspinall, Rob Cross and Peter Wright — in a mini-tournament in a different city every Thursday until the final in May. BUY LUKE LITTLER'S SHIRT HERE

He also drew the ire of United boss Erik ten Hag after failing to put away chances in the game as the Dutchman told Sky Sports: "We allowed them to get back into the game. With Garnacho and Rashy, we had big chances to make it three and four nil.

"Second-half we should have scored. Bruno and Garnacho and Rashford - they were not opportunities, they were 100% chances. One has to go in and then you make your life easy. Now, we kept them in the game."