A model has wowed fans with some racy new lingerie pictures this week, which were dubbed NSFW (not safe for work).

Stunner Katarzyna Bucko, who is based in Dubai, showed off her fabulous figure in Fashion Nova's Lovers Party Lace Mesh Teddy⁠ set. And people couldn't get enough, as they branded the model 'gorgeous'.

The skimpy set comprises of a sheer white body suit, which features cut-out sections at the waist and chest, as well as embroidered flower detailing. The body is also accompanied by a pair of racy stockings.

READ MORE: Model says it feels 'good to be naughty' as she strips to cut-out lingerie

Check out more fashion & beauty stories here

Katarzyna was seen wearing the lingerie as she lounged on a cream sofa. She teamed the flesh-flashing display with immaculate makeup, which included bold brows, lined eyes and scarlet lipstick. Meanwhile, her dark locks were tied up into a chic up-do.

(Image: novaintimates/instagram)

The stunner also donned a pair of black rimmed glasses as well as some glitzy gold hoop earrings.

The photos were shared on Fashion Nova's Intimates Instagram page, with its 428,000 followers. It was cheekily captioned: "Warning: Do Not Open This Message In Public – ⁠NSFW."

And it seemed shoppers were loving the racy garment, as well as Katarzyna herself, as one person wrote: "Gorgeous, gorgeous, gorgeous." Many other people branded the model "fire", as a third wrote: "Epic lingerie set!"

Want all the biggest Lifestyle news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Hot Topics newsletter

Those who do like the Lovers Party Lace Mesh Teddy⁠ can find it on the Fashion Nova website, where it's currently at the bargain price of just £6. The garment currently has 3.5/5 stars at the moment, with one reviewer writing: "True to size and exactly as I thought it would be."

Fashion Nova is known for its racy ensembles, with another model recently wowing over Valentine's Day in it's underwear. Model Natalia Lozano, from Madrid, Spain, donned some risqué underwear from the brand that barely covered her – however, fans certainly seemed to like it, as they branded her "beautiful".