Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Share your email to get soaps interviews, spoilers from the Star

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Share your email to get soaps interviews, spoilers from the Star

Former Emmerdale star Roxanne Pallet once went totally topless for a racy sex scene that took “14 hours to film.”

The actress, 41, shot to fame playing Jo Stiles on the ITV soap - making her debut in 2005. For three years she was a regular and was also nominated for several gongs.

But in 2008, Roxanne quit the Dales and said her goodbyes to the famous Yorkshire village. Since her soap exit, she turned her hand to an array of different television and film projects.

READ MORE: EastEnders star didn’t mind lesbian romp but struggled with 'gorgeous' male co-star

READ MORE: Want more showbiz? Daily Star has just the thing for you!

In 2014, she appeared in the horror flick Wrong Turn 6: Last Resort. The gruesome movie was the sixth in the Wrong Turn franchise - which follows a group of crazed cannibals who kill people around the West Virginia area.

(Image: Daily Record)

And it’s fair to say Roxanne shed her good girl soap image in the raunchy flick. Playing the role of Jillian, Roxanne called her character “your typical neurotic pain in the ar*e in the girlfriend.”

And the role was right up Roxanne’s street. “I’m pretty laid back in real life but there’s something about f****d up characters I love playing,” she told Red Carpet News back in 2014.

(Image: 20th Century Fox)

Roxanne added: “But I find characters so liberating if I can push the boundaries and be really extreme with them.”

In the flick, Roxanne took part in a rather graphic sex scene - that ended up with her character getting killed. Going totally topless, she and her on-screen beau got down and dirty in a bathhouse.

(Image: 20th Century Fox)

However, just as Roxanne’s character Jillian climaxed, a cannibal hit her beau over the head. Jillian is then brutally dismembered by the maniacs - who ripped her naked body apart.

Talking about the sex scene, Roxanne dubbed it “intense” and the director even had some words of wisdom for the actress. She revealed: “Our director on Wrong Turn 6 was Bulgarian and he was called Valeri Milev.

(Image: 20th Century Fox)

Have you joined Threads? Follow Daily Star to keep up to date on all things showbiz here.

"He was absolutely amazing. A high-energy kind of guy, he was incredible to work with," Roxanne said. She went on: “And I remember it was the day of a really intense shoot which was a 14-hour sex scene. It took 14 hours to kind of film it and It was the sex scene into the attack and into the murder."

(Image: 20th Century Fox)

She then went on to reveal how the director prepared her for the raunchy sex scene. Roxanne revealed: “And I remember the director coming over to me and he went: “Ok Roxy we go shoot now. Kissy, kissy, kissy, sexy, sexy, sexy.”

Roxanne then went on impersonate the director who made sex sounds in a Bulgarian accent and said: “Uh, uh - then you die!” Laughing, Roxanne added: “So that was a moment I would never forget.”

For more of the latest showbiz and TV news from the Daily Star, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters here.