Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Alexei Navalny's heartbroken wife has spoke out after her husband died in a Russian prison.

Navalny is believed to have died on Friday (February 16) after he collapsed following a walk in prison. Russian authorities claim he died of "sudden death syndrome". But just a day later (Saturday, February 17) the body was reportedly misplaced, with paramedics who have since seen the body said injuries it exhibited appeared consistent with signs Navalny may have been "murdered" under Putin's orders.

And while the truth remains to be seen, Yulia Navalnaya has spoken out for the first time since the death of Vladimir Putin's biggest political rival was confirmed. Speaking via video in the same format that her husband became known for, Yulia outright said that Putin “killed my husband”.

READ MORE: Alexei Navalny smiles in final footage just one day before Putin critic dies on prison 'walk'

Click for more of the latest news from the Daily Star.

(Image: AFP via Getty Images)

“I call on you to stand alongside me,” she explained “to share not only the grief and unending pain that has enveloped us and wont let go."

She added: “I also ask you to share the fury and hate for those who dared to kill our future. I speak to you in the words of Alexei, in which I believe truly. There is no shame in doing little. There is shame in doing nothing, in allowing them to scare you. What we need is a free, peaceful and happy Russia.

“The wonderful Russia of the future my husband so dreamed of. That’s what we need. That is the country I want to live in and for our children to grow up in. That’s the country I want to build together with you. The country Alexei Navalny imagined.

(Image: yulia_navalnaya)

“That’s the only that way – no other – in which the unthinkable sacrifice he made, will not have been in vain.”

The video came out at the same time Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov confirmed that there were “no results yet” regarding the investigation into the man's death and that it is being “conducted” in accordance with “Russian law”.

For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.