Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

We don't often see models celebrate their "imperfections".

That's why one mum has taken it into her hands to remind people that nobody has a flawless body. Sarah Nicole Landry, AKA The Bird's Papaya to her 2million Instagram followers, is famous for promoting self-love online.

She often posts body positive content to help women love themselves, and she recently did something pretty amazing. The mum stripped down to a bikini to pose for a selfie, and she showed off her cellulite and stretch marks in the process.

READ MORE: 'Trolls call me granny legs because I have cellulite – but I'm beautiful'

Read all the latest lifestyle news by the team at Daily Star

Sarah posed for a mirror selfie in a pretty, neutral set that allowed her to show off her natural bod in all its glory. From her stretch marks to her tummy to her wobbly bits - everything was on display, and she looked absolutely amazing.

She really proved that natural is beautiful as she smiled for the camera with ease. Growing up, Sarah said she never saw images of people in the public eye where people showed off the parts of themselves that society deems "imperfect".

But she wants to show it's normal for our bodies to be different shapes, sizes and covered with different things.

(Image: thebirdspapaya/instagram)

Writing on Instagram, Sarah said: "I never saw myself in the angels that walked the runways or the girls on the modelling shows. I mean, be a teenager in the 2000s and it’ll get ya. So no, I never saw stretch marks or cellulite in ads or online.

"And then one day, I started to. It felt electric. Healing, even. I loved relating. I loved feeling like I could see myself in others.

"But I would idolise them, so as their image or mine would inevitably change, I would look at myself a bit differently. Comparison: the thief of joy. Time and time again.

"As if those moments of relatability were an ask to stay still. Be in this with me. Be this body with me. Stay with me. But I’m alone in it.

"And I say that now without a tinge of sadness. My lived experience. My vessel. Mine. Mine alone.

"It has taken me years to continue to detach myself from the image of others. From the runways and tv shows. From the billions of people who walk this earth with me.

"How freeing it is to be just the reflection of yourself. To relate, sure. But to honour the ebb and flow with others. High fives as we cross paths of familiarity, air high fives when we don’t.

"Lived experiences. Vessels. Ours. Ours alone. But never alone."

(Image: thebirdspapaya/Instagram)

Since she shared the post, more than 41,000 people have liked it. Her followers were quick to comment too – with many thanking her for being so authentic.

One person said: "I see you in this picture and think 'wow, she is so stunning'...I look in the mirror at a very similar body and think 'how could anyone love this?' Make it make sense!!! So much work to be done but lordy do these posts help. Thank you."

Another wrote: "You are the OG of showing stretch marks and cellulite for me and it transformed my understanding and reverence for women’s bodies. Thank you for breaking the mould and continuing to blaze the trail!"

A third replied: "I’m not really sure why, but as an influencer/content creator… your ability to love your own body and the skin you’re in, allows me to feel the same way toward myself. I’m not sure why that is, or what the science is behind it. But it’s helluva effective — keep on doing the work — because it’s working!!"

Meanwhile, a fourth commented: "Your words are electric! I’ve followed you for years and I’ve always been gravitated to your confidence because it never wavers, even during the ebbs and flows…and that’s powerful!"

Want all the biggest Lifestyle news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Hot Topics newsletter