Steve Wright, the veteran radio presenter, had a heart bypass operation before his death, according to a friend.

The Radio 2 star, who was 69, was found dead in his London flat on Monday. Police have said they are not treating his death as suspicious. Mark Wells, the former boss of ITV Entertainment, revealed that Steve had secret surgery and was 'more ill than he let on.'

Mr Wells spoke about his late friend on Colin Edmonds' podcast Behind The Scenes. He said: "Steve had a heart operation about 15 months ago.

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Steve Wright's brother breaks silence on star's cause of death and hidden health battle

"He had a bypass operation that had gone well...and I think he was more ill than he was letting on. The recovery had gone pretty well but the events of the last couple of days was probably what in the end came for him."

Earlier this week, Steve's son Tom shared that he had flown from Los Angeles to London to look after his dad in his final weeks. Tom said he was thankful he got to know his dad in a way he 'never had before' as they spent time together before he died.

In a heartfelt social media post, Tom wrote: "It meant the world to me that I was able to get to know my Dad in a way I never had in the months before he died.

"I will cherish every moment we shared and every memory we made. I only hope to make him proud and build on his legacy with kindness and love. This made every struggle worthwhile to have had this time with him before we lost him," he penned.

Steve's brother Laurence Wright admitted that the late broadcaster's lifestyle choices may have contributed to his death. Laurence, 65, said: "He was aware that he could have looked after himself better, in his lifestyle choices. Obviously we all wish he had. It's like anyone who doesn't look after themselves over an extended period.

"The normal stuff - diet, nutrition, exercise, sleep, stress - he was a very stoic kind of guy as well so if he had something wrong with him and he had to go to have some treatment or go to the doctors, he wouldn't talk about it."

(Image: PA)

Former ITV boss Mr Wells also revealed that Steve had been offered his afternoon slot back on Radio 2 shortly before his death. In September 2022 bosses handed the afternoon slot to Scott Mills, leaving Steve with just his Sunday Love Songs programme. But Mr Wells said that Steve was asked about a return to the slot just days before he passed away.

The Beeb are this weekend airing a series of specials in his honour. A special commission celebrating Steve Wright's BBC career will be aired later this year.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.