Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Coronation Street favourite Samia Longchambon has warned fans Gary Windass is “going to kill Mason” after Liam’s horrific bullying ordeal is exposed.

Over the past few weeks, ITV fans have been gripped to their screens as school bully Mason Radcliffe (played by Luca Toolan) has wreaked havoc at Weatherfield High School. Viewers have watched Liam Connor (Charlie Wrenshall) and Dylan Wilson (Liam Mccheyne) be terrorised by the high schooler ever since he arrived on the Street.

After months of bullying his fellow students, Mason has built quite a reputation for himself both inside and outside of the school grounds. Arguably, the student most struggling with his arrival is Liam who has been bullied by him every day.

READ MORE: Corrie's Samia Longchambon spent 'all day crying' with co-star after harrowing scenes

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

Now, the Maria Connor star has lifted the lid on how her on-screen husband will react to the news in an interview with Daily Star and other press. When asked what the TV hunk will think when he finds out the truth, she told us: “Obviously Gary can be quite hot headed.

(Image: ITV)

“His initial thought is, ‘I’m going to kill Mason’ probably quite literally knowing Gary’s history. So that is a concern for Maria.

“But at the same time, they do have these conversations where Gary’s like, ‘I’m gonna go find him’ and Maria says, ‘As much as I’d like you to do that, I’d happily throttle the pair of them – meaning Mason and Dylan – we can't because we’re going to get in trouble is we do that.

“‘So, we need to do it all the proper way because it’s just gonna make it worse for Liam if we don’t’.”

(Image: ITV)

While shooting this devastating storyline, Coronation Street bosses have been working with the National Bullying Helpline to ensure Liam’s story is told authentically and with sensitivity. ITV executive producer Iain Macleod explained how their partnership has aided the storyline.

He explained: “We felt it was very important to show the mental damage that bullying can do to people on the receiving end, especially in the modern world, when children are faced with what can seem like inescapable cyber-bullying.

“The aggression doesn’t stop at the school gates but can find you in the safety of your own home. Having said that, it was also important that across the story as a whole, we showed some hope for Liam and that by speaking up, finally, he can begin the process of escaping his nightmare and begin to heal.”

(Image: ITV)

Fans will have to stay tuned to see how Liam will overcome Mason’s constant bullying on the ITV cobbles.

Coronation Street airs on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays from 8pm on ITV1 or catch up on ITVX.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.