Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Leaving tips at a restaurant is a nice way of thanking the staff for their incredible service.

People often put between 10-20% as a tip, while others might pay the bare minimum. Now staff at a restaurant were left gobsmacked by one customer's gesture.

The team at Mason Jar Cafe's in Michigan, US, usually receive tips ranging from around 15-25%. But every so often they'll be lucky enough to receive a higher tip.

READ MORE: Join the Daily Star's WhatsApp for the sexiest headlines, showbiz gossip and lots more

You can read more lifestyle stories from Daily Star here.

And earlier this month, the staff received a £7,935 ($10,000) tip, around 30,835% of the entire bill which came in around £25.73 ($32.43).

(Image: masonjarcafe_/instagram)

Speaking to The Hill, manager Tim Sweeney said: "Typically, we'll see every now and then $100 (£79.35). But not ever anything of this gratitude or magnitude."

The customer, who was identified as Mark, ran up a £25.73 ($32.43) bill at the restaurant before adding a hefty £7,935 ($10,000) tip at the end.

Naturally with such a large chunk of money offered, Tim wanted to make sure the customer hadn't made a mistake.

He added: "We went back and forth. I had a conversation with him. He wanted to proceed."

Join the Daily Star's WhatsApp for the sexiest headlines, showbiz gossip and lots more The Daily Star is now on WhatsApp and we want you to join us! Through the app, we'll send you the sassiest showbiz stories, some naught headline and a seismic smattering of aliens...along with the latest breaking news of course. To join our community, all you have to do to join is click on this link, select 'Join Chat' and you're in! No one will be able to see who has sign up and no one can send messages except for the Daily Star team. We also treat our community members to competitions, special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don’t like our community, you can check out any time you like. To leave our community click on the name at the top of your screen and choose Exit group. If you’re curious, you can read our Privacy Notice. CLICK HERE TO JOIN

It was in that moment the kind-hearted stranger revealed the touching reason for his generous tip. Server Paige Mulick claimed it was in memory of a friend who had died recently.

She added: "He was in town for the funeral. It was just really an act of kindness that impacted so many people."

The team at the restaurant opted to split the $10,000 nine ways between staff – meaning everyone took home a little more than £872.88 ($1,100).

Paige, who recently graduated, revealed she's putting the share of money towards her student loans.

"Every dollar counts at a job like this," she concluded. "We work hard. We know that some days you're going to make more and some days you're going to make less.

"That's just part of how it goes. But we hustle hard and I think that a lot of people really deserve this."

Want all the biggest Lifestyle news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Hot Topics newsletter