Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

The Masked Singer Piranha's body language has "exposed" who is hiding behind the disguise.

Since the fifth series of the ITV show began at the end of December, the judges and fans have been speculating which famous faces are singing behind the masks. The final airs tonight (February 17) and will see Piranha, Cricket and Bigfoot fight it out for the crown.

Piranha kicked things off with a magnificent rendition of 'It’s All Coming Back to Me Now' by Celine Dion. The giant fish has since floored fans with performances of 'Without You' by Harry Nilsson as well as Kelly Clarkson's 'Since U Been Gone'.

READ MORE: Inside The Masked Singer's judges' salaries – million-pound fortune to pay cuts

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

As soon as Piranha made his debut, viewers speculated that McFly star Danny Jones was behind the mask. It appears Piranha's identity has now been "confirmed" as the 37-year-old musician following a series of telling clues.

(Image: ITV)

Celebrity body language expert Inbaal Honigman spoke exclusively to Daily Star after analysing Piranha's routines and came to the conclusion that the celebrity is used to performing in front of huge crowds.

"Without a shadow of a doubt, Piranha is used to big arenas," the psychic explained. "His sweeping gestures, opening his arms wide, or rather opening his fins wide, show that he knows how to connect with huge audiences without letting anyone feel left out."

(Image: Dave Benett/Getty Images for Hug)

Inbaal pointed out that Piranha's leg movements are "minimal" which suggests "that he's a band boy, not a solo artist." She added: "In a band, he'd have to follow a choreography, and be mindful of other band members on the stage, so he can't roam free.

"Piranha doesn't have the free spirited way that a solo performer would have, pacing the stage at his will. Tapping his leg to the beat shows that Piranha is passionate about music and loves singing and performing."

The body language expert went on: "This is certainly someone who's made music his life, not just an actor who sings, or a part-time stage performer. Music is what he's about."

(Image: Dave Benett/Getty Images)

Whilst Danny is one of the lead vocalists of McFly, he is also the lead guitarist. This hasn't gone unnoticed by Inbaal as she explained: "As he gets excited, Piranha is seen jumping up and down, the classic move of a guitar playing boybander whose main dance universe is in exploring the vertical."

With no doubt that the man behind the mask is Danny, Inbaal concluded: "Piranha's moves are identical to Danny Jones's in every way – the toe tapping, the jumping up and down, the raised arms while singing. If this isn't the McFly frontman behind those sharp teeth, then it's someone very much like him."

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.