Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

A woman has shared her experience of facing prejudice and discrimination after she swapped Christianity for witchcraft.

Cassie Brooks, 40, from Tennessee, US, had devoted her life to the church, working as an assistant pastor and volunteering as a missionary.

However, she found herself drawn to the supernatural while researching for a children's book she was writing, and the totems, crystals and spirit guides she discovered inspired her to embrace witchcraft.

READ MORE: 'Real life witch' shares tips to manifest your love life and bag 'Mr Right'

Check out more real life stories here

Cassie, who now works as an accounting analyst, has opened up about her journey.

She recalled: "I was raised a Southern Baptist and my family was at church every time the doors opened. There was no dancing, no drinking and no cussing. It was a fire and brimstone type teaching of Christianity. It was definitely not acceptable to be queer or sexual or to be seen."

(Image: Cassie Brooks/Cover Images)

Now, Cassie openly identifies as a witch in her personal and professional life, hoping to challenge the bias and negativity often associated with the term.

However, this decision led to many of her old friends distancing themselves from her, with some even praying for her salvation from 'the prospect of hell'.

She admitted: "I actually had a book publisher turn me away because I publicly said I was a witch."

At work, Cassie celebrates different holidays than her colleagues and keeps plants and crystals at her desk. For her, being a witch 'is as simple as lighting a candle or blowing one out'.

(Image: Cassie Brooks/Cover Images)

(Image: Cassie Brooks/Cover Images)

Her practice of witchcraft includes yoga, talking to her plants or animals, using essential oils or cooking with them.

"Sometimes it's reading tarot cards for guidance or saying a prayer or affirmation over my son," she said. "It's listening to my favourite songs on repeat or simply sitting outside under the moon. I always had a standard and rules to follow and a box that I fit myself into perfectly.

(Image: Cassie Brooks/Cover Images)

Want all the biggest Lifestyle news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Hot Topics newsletter

"There was a lot of guilt I felt at times and denied who I was for a long time. Coming out of the closet at 40 wasn't easy, much less acknowledging that as part of my own truths after a lifetime of believing it was sinful and wrong.

"It's allowed me to step outside of that box and discover who I am without someone else telling me who I am or should be."

Cassie concluded: "I am still a 'good girl' and have a heart for my community and helping others, but now I advocate for marginalised communities like the Pagan and witchy communities, as well as the LBGTQ ones."