One of the most controversial film directors in Hollywood who regularly uses unsimulated sex in his movies may have a good reason he’s so comfortable with nakedness – he was raised by nudists.

Lars von Trier is the director and writer behind films like Nymphomanic Vol I and II, Antichrist and The Idiots, which all used real sex in place of simulated romps. That meant hiring porn doubles on some occasions, and in others allowing the lead actors to do what they must. And since he’s responsible for establishing the first ever mainstream porn studio aimed at women, Zentropa, he was in good company.

Charlotte Gainsbourg, star of Nymphomaniac, said there was something “humiliating” about performing fellatio on a fake penis, telling Vanity Fair: “I think, just in regards to the sexual things, the fellatio was hardest, because it’s very intimate and there was something quite humiliating about the whole thing.” She said it was “not on a real d**k” and porn actors did most of the heavy lifting when it came to sex scenes.

READ MORE: Emilia Clarke ‘thanked’ bosses after sex scene and said ‘I’ve waited for that’

READ MORE: Want more showbiz? Daily Star has just the thing for you!

But it was Charlotte who had to make an “O-face” for the poster, admitting: “The photographer was very sweet, but he wasn’t Lars, and to go that far, just pretending an orgasm, without Lars, was suddenly awkward.”

(Image: Rolf Konow)

It’s no wonder Lars makes his actors feel so comfortable with sex and nudity on set, as he has plenty of experience with that realm. The star spent his summers at Danish nudist camps with his parents when he was just a child, becoming very familiar with nakedness.

He’s always been “open to nudity” due to this upbringing, in which everyone was forced to strip off in front of each other. He admitted to The Independent: “I don’t have any sexual memories but I remember there was a little post office and you’d go in – and the post officer was only wearing a hat.

“If you were inside a tent and you put on a sweater because it was cold, when someone came to visit you had to get rid of the sweater straight away. You couldn't be caught being clothed. It was very peaceful... and fair,” he added.

(Image: Zentropa Ents/Kobal/REX/Shutterstock)

Despite that, his relationship with his mother remained strained, as she revealed on her deathbed that the man he thought of as his father was not actually related to him by blood. In truth, his real father was his mum’s former employer, an anti-Nazi German in Copenhagen.

He explained: “Until that point I thought I had a Jewish background. But I'm really more of a Nazi. I believe that my biological father's German family went back two further generations. Before she died, my mother told me to be happy that I was the son of this other man.

(Image: Zentropa Ents/Kobal/REX/Shutterstock)

For more of the latest showbiz news from Daily Star, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.

“She said my foster father had had no goals and no strength. But he was a loving man. And I was very sad about this revelation. And you then feel manipulated when you really do turn out to be creative. If I'd known that my mother had this plan, I would have become something else. I would have shown her. The slut!"

In a startling admission, von Trier says he “sympathised” with Hitler but is “very much in favour of the Jews”, accused of antisemitism as he said at Cannes Film Festival: “What can I say? I understand Hitler. He did some wrong things, absolutely, but I can see him sitting there in his bunker at the end... I sympathise with him, yes, a little bit."

Follow Daily Star on Threads here.