Mohamed Salah was the inspiration for one BAFTA winner who recreated the Liverpool superstar's celebration on stage.

During the 2024 BAFTAs ceremony on Sunday (February 18) the award for Best British Short Film went to Jellyfish and Lobster, which was written by Yasmin Afifi and Elizabeth Rufai.

After the pair made their speeches to the audience, lead actor Sayed Badreya spoke briefly and paid tribute to fellow compatriot Mohamed Salah on the star-studded night at the Royal Festival Hall in London.

READ MORE: Jurgen Klopp 'refused to tell Sadio Mane' about transfer that impacted his Liverpool role

READ MORE: Six Liverpool players in danger of being axed when Jurgen Klopp emotionally departs

Watch football, F1, golf, tennis, cricket and more Get all the sport you could ever ask for Sky Sports is bringing you 500 live football games to watch, as well access to Cricket, Golf, F1, Boxing, NFL, NBA and more across eight dedicated channels. Sky Sports is the only way to watch all the action this year. £22 a month Sky Get it here

The 67-year-old Egyptian said: "I don't have so much to say because I speak from the heart, and my fellow Egyptian Mohamed Salah, when he celebrates something, he goes like this and I want the camera man to watch" as he proceeded to bow down with the award and perform the Sujud al-Shukr which is a prostration of gratitude towards Allah in Islam.

The gesture is carried out when a blessing which comes to a person which is why it's a common celebration among Muslim footballers and one usually done by Salah and his former Liverpool team-mate Sadio Mane.

Is this Mohamed Salah's last season at Liverpool? Give us your thoughts in the comments section below

The tenured actor was praised by fans on social media as one X (formerly known as Twitter) user wrote: "Sayed Badreya does an impeccable impression of his compatriot, Mo Salah when he and his fellow cast received BAFTA award for Jellyfish and Lobster".

Badreya mentioned that he's been playing roles of bad guys and terrorists for 40 years during his career as another said his speech was emotional as they commented: "Sayed Badreya gave a short speech about having had to have played terrorists up until this short and is a reminder of what Arab performers go through in this industry. Brought a tear to my eye".

(Image: Liverpool FC via Getty Images)

Luke Littler darts fans can back 'The Nuke' in Premier League with his playing shirt Luke Littler fans can now buy the 17-year-old's playing shirt to support him as he continues to demonstrate his talent in the Premier League. The darts sensation was only 16 when he wowed Alexandra Palace at the World Darts Championship (WDC), despite a final loss to Luke Humphries. The Nuke will continue playing against seven of the best dart players in the world — Humphries, Michael van Gerwen, Gerwyn Price, Michael Smith, Nathan Aspinall, Rob Cross and Peter Wright — in a mini-tournament in a different city every Thursday until the final in May. BUY LUKE LITTLER'S SHIRT HERE

It's been a successful couple of days for the two Egyptians as a day before Badreya claimed the first BAFTA in his career, Salah scored and assisted in Liverpool's 4-1 win over Brentford upon his return from injury.

Having been substituted on in the first half due to Diogo Jota's knee injury, the 31-year-old assisted Alexis Mac Allister to put the Reds 2-0 before scoring himself to net his 15th Premier League goal of the season as he currently leads Erling Haaland in the league's goal scoring charts.

The forward certainly looks back to his best having missed eight games through the Africa Cup of Nations and his injury which made for his longest layoff from club duty since arriving at Anfield in 2017.