Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Louis Walsh is the latest star "confirmed" for Celebrity Big Brother.

The TV personality 71, will reportedly enter the CBB house when the show lands on ITV1 next month. Louis, who was a judge on The X Factor from 2004 until 2014 and once again from 2016 to 2017, is said to have signed a six-figure deal to appear on the show.

With almost half a century working in showbusiness, TV bosses are keen for the Irish music manager to spill some industry secrets. Louis also worked alongside Westlife, Boyzone and Girls Aloud.

READ MORE: Celebrity Big Brother bosses 'gutted' as ITV star turns down offer after 'intense' talks

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

A close associate of Louis told The Sun: "He is one of the most intriguing signings for Celebrity Big Brother because he has almost half a century of experience in showbusiness to recall when he enters the house. Viewers will be most interested in his memories of his time on The X Factor and working with huge music acts including Westlife and Boyzone."

(Image: WireImage)

The insider added: "But there may be a few celebrities outside the house who are feeling nervous about what he might say, because Louis is notoriously outspoken." ITV are yet to confirm Louis' appearance as they responded: "All names are purely speculation" when asked if he will star in the upcoming series.

The former Popstars judge will join a number of celebrities in the famous house – three of which have already been "leaked". Love Island star Ekin-Su Cülcüloğlu is set to enter the house following her split from Davide Sanclimenti.

(Image: ITV)

Former boxing champion Amir Khan's wife Faryal Makhdoom is believed to have signed up as well as Kate Middleton's uncle Gary Goldsmith. One person who won't be starring in the upcoming series is The Traitors' Harry Clark.

The 23-year-old, who recently scooped nearly £100,000 after winning the BBC show, has reportedly turned down a huge sum to appear on CBB. An insider told The Sun: "Just like his time on the whodunnit show, he is being incredibly shrewd about every move he makes and wants to play the long game.

"He’s made not bones about the fact that he fancies doing reality TV and although he was incredibly flattered by the offer, Celebrity Big Brother didn’t feel like the right project for him."

ITV would have paid Harry a massive £250,000, which is over double the £95,150 he took home from his time on The Traitors. According to reports, the former army lance corporal has had a number of project offers from big names and has now signed under InterTalent.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.