Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get the best celeb gossip with the Daily Star Showbiz newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get the best celeb gossip with the Daily Star Showbiz newsletter

Megan Fox rocked up to the 49th annual People's Choice Awards with her bold new look as plastic surgery rumours continued to persist after her Super Bowl appearance.

The 37-year-old Hollywood star arrived at the Barker Hangar in Santa Monica, California, wearing a stunning white strapless dress as she showed off her pink hair. Megan decided to give the red carpet a miss and instead presented an award alongside Joe Manganiello.

Adding a black choker to her outfit, the Transformers beauty also revealed her new sleeve of tattoos. However, fans were quick to brutally comment on Megan's new look online, with some cruelly comparing her to the Bride of Chucky character from the Child's Play horror films.

READ MORE: Sick necrophiliac who murdered 71 told cops he had to bury bodies or sex could be endless



Read more USA news by clicking here.

In a comment, that was echoed many other times on the platform, one X user posted: "Megan Fox out here looking like the Bride of Chucky."

(Image: NBC via Getty Images)

Megan's awards appearance comes after she came under fire while attempting to defend her shock new look, likening herself in one photo to a "Ukrainian blow-up doll."

Posting a snap of herself to Instagram on Wednesday, alongside Taylor Swift, Travis Kelce and her boyfriend, Machine Gun Kelly, she responded to critics attributing her altered image to a 'shadowy' photo.

Her caption read: "Oh my god guys look how different i…dont look at all.

(Image: Twitter)

To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here .

"Turns out it was just a shadowy cell phone pic of me looking like a Ukrainian blowup doll. when in REALITY i look like one of those super expensive silicone real sex dolls you can only get in Japan."

However, her post backfired spectacularly due to her reference of the war-torn nation.

One fan responded: "Come to Ukraine and see what Ukrainian women are, who we are and what are we going through - daily. To realise what a catastrophic disrespectful shame you just written."

(Image: meganfox/Instagram)

Another wrote: "While Megan was busy typing the word 'Ukrainian' in her caption as a joke, russian military has already normalized sexual violence as a norm in the occupied regions of Ukraine.

"Women, children, and the elderly will have been sexually abused in the occupied regions of Ukraine by russian soldiers. But Megan go ahead and have a laugh."

But at least some fans stood up for Megan, in spite of the triggering reference.

One wrote: "Society builds women up just to tear them down. You are GORGEOUS. Period. End of story."