Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

This is a strong four-player co-op sci-fi game with plenty of challenge and intense action.

While we liked the over-the-top bombast of Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League earlier this month, the gameplay on that four-player title failed to live up to the Batman Arkham games before it.

Helldivers 2 is more fun to play and combines a rip-off Starship Troopers-like story with an over-the-shoulder Halo style sci-fi battler. But it doesn't have as strong a storyline.

Because it's an online shared experience with other gamers, the Helldivers action feels live, impactful and stressful as you fight to complete missions against a hoard of baddies.

The game opens with a cheesy cinematic which is a complete rip-off both in storyline and its sarcastic humour of the bloody Starship Troopers movies.

The game then goes quickly into a pre-online lobby where you’re tasked with taking on different missions alongside pals or randoms in battling giant crab-like monsters trying to take over the galaxy.

(Image: Playstation)

You’re tasked with taking on an ever-raging alien force vying for control in a Galactic War, all with the ultimate aim of protecting your home, Super Earth.

The Helldivers are groups of drop troopers who fall to the ground in space ‘hell pods’.

They’re small bullet-like mini spaceships that dump you in a large open map and then you have to take on tasks to complete a mission, all while being chased down by critters and robots.

When you’re in an intense firefight with pals, you’ll have chosen a series of ’stratagems’ in advance to deliver certain help from your main spaceship above.

So with a few button combos you can call in a strike on a growing cluster of baddies.

(Image: Playstation)

Or call for the mothership to drop you some new ammo, maybe a special machine gun.

It means that no matter how tough things are looking, you always have a trump card in your back pocket to turn the tide.

That said, this game isn’t for the faint of heart. I struggled even in the early levels to successfully complete missions as the never-ending surge of baddies, like a tide of zombies in Days Gone, comes to kill.

That’s where you need that four-player group of online buddies to work together, hitting those mission consoles, calling in back-up and covering your back as you try to scupper the Terminid onslaught.

Only by working as a team do you really stand a chance of winning a mission.

And therein lies the core fun of the game.

A successful group battle, one where you all pull your weight, is incredibly rewarding.

The gameplay is tight and the gunplay akin to a Gears of War game.

The graphics and sound are very serviceable but not up there with the best the PS5 offers.

And the online service worked fine on PlayStation during our time with the title, although I’ve read others have had issues with connectivity on the PC version.

All in, this is great fun, albeit slightly limited in its longevity. While there are unlocks to push for, the core game remains largely the same from the off.

However it delivers a good engagement and stress-factor when playing due to the overwhelming odds.

And Helldivers 2 is at its best when played with other real-life players in a team situation. Not bad for £35.

VERDICT 4/5