Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Steve Wright was reportedly set to to front a new BBC TV show before he sadly passed away.

Before his sudden death earlier this week,the broadcasting legend spoke to Simon Margaroli, who runs a hotel, and they talked about a big meeting the star had coming up.

Simon told the Mirror: "He talked of an imminent meeting with a lady from the BBC regarding a new TV series that he was hoping to be involved with, which he was very excited about. He said that was about people such as airline stewardesses or restaurant managers, chambermaids, and traffic wardens all spilling the beans about their lives basically the people we all see every day but never hear their stories."

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

The much-loved radio star was found in his flat in London on Monday February 12, at 69 years old. His cause of death is yet to be confirmed but the police have confirmed his passing is "not being treated as suspicious". The emergency teams dashed to Steve's place in Marylebone, London just after 10am.

(Image: PA)

A spokesperson for the Metropolitan Police said at the time: "A man in his 60s was pronounced dead at the scene. His next of kin have been informed. The death was unexpected, but is not being treated as suspicious. A report will be prepared for the coroner." London Ambulance Service confirmed they were called to the address following "reports of an incident". Despite their efforts, Steve was sadly pronounced dead at the scene.

(Image: Getty Images)

After the sad news broke out, loads of tributes came pouring in for the top radio star from his BBC workmates, his pals and fans who loved listening to him. Steve had a special spot on BBC Radio 2 that he filled from 1999 all the way up to 2022, when Scott Mills took over.

Some of Simon's friends reckon he was really upset about his Radio 2 show getting cut off last year, but Mr Margaroli, who looks after the Ardington Hotel in Worthing, West Sussex, mentioned that Steve seemed quite chipper. He shared that after hotel guests chatted with the DJ: "He was very charming and engaging."

The last time he was on the airwaves was Sunday, February 11 for a pre-recorded show about Valentine's Day. The Beeb have planned to put on a bunch of special shows this weekend to remember him. They're also going to make a special programme later this year to celebrate Steve.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter