Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Daily Star TV newsletter for the biggest TV news

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Daily Star TV newsletter for the biggest TV news

BBC Breakfast underwent a major shake-up as Sally Nugent was missing from the red sofa.

The 52-year-old usually hosts the flagship programme alongside Jon Kay from Monday until Wednesday. But fans were greeted with a different face during the latest instalment (February 19) of the show.

Jon, 54, was joined by Nina Warhurst, who returned to BBC Breakfast in January after a six-month maternity leave following the birth of her third child. Nina's comeback saw her present a segment on an investigation into the price of baby formula.

READ MORE: BBC Breakfast's Naga Munchetty takes swipe at co-star ahead of gruelling challenge

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

Presenters at the time Jon and Sarah Campbell excitedly introduced Nina, who gushed about how much she'd missed "the gang" at BBC Breakfast. She said: "Thank you very much it's lovely to be back. I have missed the gang.

(Image: BBC)

"I'm missing the baby this morning very much but yeah it's lovely to be back. Best job in the world. And best baby in the world." The news anchor continued: "I know everyone thinks their baby is the best one but sorry guys, mine actually is yeah."

In July 2023, the 43-year-old welcomed a baby girl named Nance with her husband Ted Fraser. The couple also share sons Digby and Michael.

(Image: BBC)

The broadcaster's happy news was announced by Jon and Sally who were hosting BBC Breakfast. Sally told viewers: "Some very exciting news now about our colleague Nina Warhurst, who we said goodbye to not very many days ago as she went off on maternity leave.

"She has welcomed a very healthy, beautiful baby girl." Sharing sweet snaps of the newborn, Jon gushed: "And there she is!"

He continued: "Nina has told us the baby's name is a working progress, but the great news is they're all doing well after what Nina says was brilliant care from the team at St Mary's in Manchester. Isn't she gorgeous?"

(Image: BBC)

Sally added: "I believe this as well – Nina said she's watching from home, morning, Nina! Along with the baby and two beautiful big brothers and she's very grateful for all the gorgeous messages she's had from people at home who are watching too.

"So she wants to pass on her thanks for everything – all the kind words people have said." Jon went on: "And all our love to you and the family, Nina. That is fantastic, we're delighted for you."

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.