Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

A bloke who began kicking off in Hooters ended up embarking on a wild criminal rampage.

Hugh McMenamin, 44, was allegedly dining at the world-renowned chain restaurant in Cape Coral, Florida, US, on Friday when his mood escalated to refusing to leave when asked to do so.

But, the Florida man's night of mayhem was only just getting started as he ventured on to knock down a six-foot fence, smash a window and kick in the door of a property he began to wander through.

READ MORE: Mum accidentally mows down 7-year-old son after forcing him to walk home as punishment

For more of the lates t news from the Daily Star, click to the right of here.

As he broke through the door and entered the house he was met by the homeowner, who much to his shock, was armed and instantly fired shots at the suspect.

(Image: Google Maps)

Luckily for McMenamin, he managed to come out of the incident unscathed after he successfully dodged the onslaught of shots, but he was arrested shortly after and charged with criminal mischief, property damage and burglary of an occupied structure.

Perhaps unsurprisingly it's not the first time that McMenamin has had a run-in with the law with an aggravated assault with a deadly weapon in 2021 and violating his parole among his previous convictions.

McMenamin who is accused of causing approximately $3,000 (£2,300) worth of damage to the home has remained in custody since his arrest.

This comes after an American man was found mauled to death by up to 13 pitbulls by his friend early on Friday morning (February 16).

The horrific incident occurred when the man had been trying to feed the killer canines in the garden of a property before his friend discovered what happened and called 911.

To get more stories from the Daily Star delivered straight to your inbox, sign up to one of our free newsletters here.