Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Daily Star TV newsletter for the biggest TV news

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Daily Star TV newsletter for the biggest TV news

Home and Away fans will be on the edge of their seats next week.

After suffering chest pains, Mackenzie is tended to by paramedics at home and is surprised to learn that she’s completely fine. When they suggest Mac returns to hospital, she refuses.

Later, Mali and Xander discover her unconscious and the former paramedic begins chest compressions. Levi prepares to say his goodbyes to Summer Bay when Mackenzie is wheeled in by paramedics.

READ MORE: Home and Away Leah star's love life – co-star romance, tragic loss and soap snub

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

With her life on the line, Tane, Xander and Mali gather at the hospital while Levi prepares to operate. Mac's friends wait for news on her health as Mali stresses himself out by reading about heart attacks online, revealing a second heart attack so close to the first could be fatal.

(Image: Channel 5)

When Harper inadvertently breaks the news about Mac to Felicity, she joins them at the hospital before Levi delivers the news that Mac has made it through her surgery.

As Felicity breaks down in relief, Tane holds her close, and the moment between them feels charged. Later, Tane prepares to pack Mac some things for hospital, and Felicity arrives to assist. She’s direct with her ex about the moment they shared as Tane admits he felt it too.

(Image: Channel 5)

He tells Felicity that despite still loving her, they can't be together. Elsewhere Eden is infuriated with the presence of her brother. After a run-in with Levi, she suggests a getaway with Cash.

Despite wanting to stay in Summer Bay for Felicity, Cash is convinced to head out of town with Eden. They arrive at their destination, but it's not the place Eden was expecting as she realises they're camping for the weekend.

(Image: Channel 5)

Eden tries to make the best of camping but it's clear she's not enjoying it. The next morning, as Cash removes a tick from a horrified Eden’s neck, he confides in her how much his camping trips with foster dad Garry meant to him as a child.

Although she is moved by the story, Eden calls Remi to collect her. Cash overhears her on the phone and the pair end up arguing.

Finally, Cash diffuses with a compromise – what if they stay one more night and then check into a fancy hotel? Eden softens and leaves Remi a voicemail saying she's staying.

Meanwhile Remi is on his bike already heading out to pick up Eden. When the driver of an oncoming car is distracted by a tussle with his passenger, his car collides with Remi’s bike.

Remi is thrown through the air before his body hits the ground. When the driver, Wes, inspects a lifeless Remi, he declares that he's dead.

(Image: Channel 5)

Panicking, Wes first destroys Remi’s phone, then insists they move the body. Despite initial protests from passenger Mickey, he soon complies, and the pair pile Remi into the car before speeding off down the highway.

Night falls at the campsite and Eden leaves the tent to go to the toilet. Hearing a noise from the nearby bush, Eden spots Mickey digging a makeshift grave.

Before she can process what she’s seen, Wes knocks her out from behind and she ends up bound and gagged in the boot. When Cash wakes the next morning, Eden is nowhere to be seen.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.