Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Michael J Fox received a standing ovation from Hollywood’s finest at the 2024 British Academy Film Awards as he took to the stage in a wheelchair.

On Sunday (February 18), the 62-year-old actor, who has battled Parkinson's since he was diagnosed in 1991, was assisted to the podium as he announced who had won Best Film of the year. The film star revealed the gong had been awarded to Christopher Nolan’s biopic Oppenheimer.

After entering the stage in the wheelchair, Michael received a warm reception from stars such as Margot Robbie, Bradley Cooper and Barry Keoghan as he stood up to deliver the award. The beloved 80s film star was visibly touched by those who gave him a standing ovation at London’s Royal Festival Hall.

READ MORE:Martin Freeman unrecognisable in quirky new look amid age gap sex scene backlash

READ MORE:Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

Oppenheimer went on to be one of the biggest winners of the night, taking home seven gongs including Best Film, Supporting Actor for Robert Downey Jr and Director for Christopher Nolan. The Back to the Future star previously walked the red carpet with his glamorous wife Tracy Pollan.

(Image: Getty Images for BAFTA)

As he presented the prestigious prize, he said: “Five films were nominated in this category tonight and all five have something in common. They are the best of what we do.

“No matter who you are or where you’re from, these films can bring us together. Therre’s a reason why they say movies are magic because movies can change your day.

“It can change your outlook. Sometimes it can change your life.” Michael was just 29 years old when he was diagnosed with the deteriorating condition, which he publicly confirmed in 1998.

(Image: Getty Images for BAFTA)

In 2023, the award-winning actor released an Apple TV+ documentary about his career whilst living with the disease, which earned him a BAFTA nomination. While Michael presented the final award of the night, he was also in attendance after his documentary Still: A Michael J Fox Story received recognition in the Documentary category.

Speaking to the BBC following the documentary’s nomination, he said: “I would say it’s a gift and people would look at me and I’d say it’s a gift that keeps on taking, but it’s a gift.” It was clear to see Nolan was overwhelmed to have finally won his first BAFTA award for his gripping biopic of the man behind the atomic bomb.

The 54-year-old has previously been nominated for eight BAFTAs but – bar an honorary award in 2010 – he was yet to steal one on his own merit. But that changed this weekend when his IMAX epic starring Cillian Murphy as nuclear physicist J Robert Oppenheimer, dominated the British film industry’s most prestigious prized.

(Image: Gareth Cattermole/Getty Images f)

As he accepted the award, he said that his film ends with a “dramatically necessary note of despair”. However, he added that many people and organisations had successfully helped further nuclear disarmament, which has led to a 90% reduction since 1967.

The impressive slew of victories for Oppenheimer has only further cemented the epic’s position as frontrunner at next month’s Oscars, where the film is also in the running to scoop up 13 awards.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.