Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Experts raised concerns that recent changes to the Highway Code could have made roads more dangerous.

A survey by the RAC revealed half of drivers are still unsure if these changes improved safety for pedestrians. Only 18% believe the new rules have increased pedestrian safety.

Meanwhile 31% of Brits think pedestrians face even greater danger at junctions since the motoring measures were introduced.

READ MORE: Join the Daily Star's WhatsApp for the sexiest headlines, showbiz gossip and lots more

You can read more lifestyle stories from Daily Star here.

Craig Delahaye, Associate Director of Legal Operations at National Accident Helpline, has called for further education to help road users understand the rules better.

(Image: UIG via Getty Images)

He believes this will reduce road accidents, as well as decrease the number of pedestrian injuries and fatalities.

Craig also warned Highway Code changes could make things "more dangerous".

He said: "The number of people unsure whether the Highway Code changes made a difference to pedestrian safety is indicative of the need of further education on the changes implemented two years ago to improve road safety."

The expert explained changes to the Highway Code two years ago introduced the Hierarchy of Road users.

This system places pedestrians at the top, giving them the highest priority, with HGVs at the bottom with the least priority, and the most responsibility.

Join the Daily Star's WhatsApp for the sexiest headlines, showbiz gossip and lots more The Daily Star is now on WhatsApp and we want you to join us! Through the app, we'll send you the sassiest showbiz stories, some naught headline and a seismic smattering of aliens...along with the latest breaking news of course. To join our community, all you have to do to join is click on this link, select 'Join Chat' and you're in! No one will be able to see who has sign up and no one can send messages except for the Daily Star team. We also treat our community members to competitions, special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don’t like our community, you can check out any time you like. To leave our community click on the name at the top of your screen and choose Exit group. If you’re curious, you can read our Privacy Notice. CLICK HERE TO JOIN

Government road casualty statistics show 30% of pedestrian fatalities and 39% of serious injuries happen at junctions. The RAC found a third (31%) of drivers believe pedestrians are in even more danger at junctions since the measures were introduced.

Craig said: "Many car drivers still do not understand that they should give way to pedestrians crossing side roads.

"There's a common misconception that, because drivers pay road tax, they rule the roads – but this is of course incorrect as roads are paid for out of general taxation.

"Therefore, it's vital that all road users, pedestrians included, fully understand the Highway Code and the Hierarchy of Road users."

Craig also stressed the importance of education. It comes as stats show five people die every day on the road in the UK.

He concluded: "Any changes to the Highway Code always need to be acknowledged and fully digested by all road users to guarantee that everyone is using the roads correctly and safely."

Want all the biggest Lifestyle news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Hot Topics newsletter