Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Dancing on Ice finalists have been "revealed" by a expert and it's not looking good for Amber Davies.

The former Love Island beauty turned West End sensation is currently one of the fan favourites to win the 2024 competition next month.

However, dance educator and researcher Dr Jill Rose Jacobs has revealed that she'd instead like to see Greg Rutherford win and that she believes Amber has been "trained to put on a character".

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

Speaking to Daily Star on behalf of Heart Bingo, Dr Jill said: "For me It's quite easy to pick finalists this year, we'll see Miles, Greg, Amber and Adele. There's two things that people need to win. They need to have a certain fitness quality and they need artistry and dance. They are two separate things as one is an art and one is a physical fitness.

(Image: WireImage)

"Amber has everything and can win but for me Amber is trained to put on a character but Greg, and Miles, become a character during their performances. Miles has something different. He's a natural on the ice and I think he's surprised himself and he also embodies the part.

Dr Jill went on to reveal who she'd like to see lift the trophy at the end of the series. She explained: "I'd like Greg to win the series. He’s my favourite because he has a masculinity, an integrity, a humility and an athleticism, and it’s who he is at the highest level.

(Image: Kieron McCarron/ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

"He’s at a very high level as a person, as a performer and as an athlete. He’s not normally what we’d think of as a figure skater – he’s got a different body type and figure, but he embodies artistry and fitness, which are the two things you need to do well in this competition.

"He’s growing into the contestant you see on your screens, because this wouldn’t have been part of his training. He had the fitness previously before he entered the competition because he’s an Olympic athlete, but dancing is more of an art – it’s about storytelling, aesthetics and grace. The big difference between fitness and art is connecting with the audience, and I think he’s doing an excellent job of that.

(Image: PA)

"I cried after Greg’s last performance – it was my favourite performance of the show. There was just something about his embodiment – he wasn’t pushing it and it wasn’t egotistical, it was so humble, genuine and beautiful. He was so extended in his lines and strong in grounding. All those things – the partnering, the connection, the storytelling and the humility of the person telling it – for me, that’s what should make you win."

Dancing on Ice airs Sundays on ITV1 and ITVX

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter