Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Share your email to get soaps interviews, spoilers from the Star

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Share your email to get soaps interviews, spoilers from the Star

Coronation Street fans have "worked out" who Lauren Bolton's ex-boyfriend is.

There has been plenty of mystery surrounding the character, played by Cait Fitton, and her unidentified ex-boyfriend. Lauren has kept her beau, who has been financially supporting her until she cut him off last month, a secret from those closest to her.

During Friday's instalment (February 16) of the ITV soap, Lauren received a final demand from her energy company. She then made a call and made it clear to the person on the other end that she didn't want their money and wants nothing more to do with them.

READ MORE: Coronation Street star breaks silence on shock exit and admits 'they'll be back'

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

Later in the episode, Lauren shared an intimate moment with Bobby (Jack Carroll) as the pair were kissing on the sofa. Things got heated and Bobby attempted to remove Lauren's clothes.

It was at that moment Lauren's heavily bruised shoulder was exposed. A confused Bobby questioned how she hurt her arm before Lauren claimed it happened after she fell down the stairs.

Fans have been theorising who the mystery man could be and have now come to a conclusion that it is Nathan Curtis (Christopher Harper). Viewers will remember that Nathan was part of a gang who groomed young girls, one of which was Bethany Platt (Lucy Fallon).

(Image: ITV)

Nathan exploited Bethany and intended to sell her as a sex slave abroad. Just before he could get her out of the country, Bethany alerted a family that she needed help before the police arrived and arrested Nathan.

Bethany later testified against him and other members of the gang, who were found guilty of rape and handed custodial sentences. But viewers believe Nathan could have found his way back to Weatherfield.

(Image: ITV)

Writing on X, one speculated: "What are them bruises on Lauren? What is she involved with? Could it be Nathan she’s involved with? Bethany’s groomer from years back?"

Another agreed: "Lauren's boyfriend is Nathan isn’t it, why oh why would you do this corrie." A third added: "Is Lauren's boyfriend Nathan (Bethany's abusive ex) by any chance?"

Echoing this, a fourth penned: "When’s Nathan due out of prison? My money’s on him being Lauren’s secret boyfriend." Meanwhile someone else simply stated: "Ah so it is it's Nathan."

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.