Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get the best celeb gossip with the Daily Star Showbiz newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get the best celeb gossip with the Daily Star Showbiz newsletter

Martin Freeman is totally unrecognisable after debuting a quirky new look.

In recent snaps, the Sherlock actor can be seen wearing a blue t-shirt underneath a dark grey suit jacket, paired with navy trousers, red socks and shiny brown shoes. To accessorise, Martin added a jaunty blue beret tilted to the side along with a silver chain necklace and a folded handkerchief in his top pocket.

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Kim Cattrall's forgotten Sex And The City lesbian romance and that bathtub scene

To tie it all together, Freeman also wore a pair of see-through purple lens glasses with silver frames. The British icon posed with one hand in his pocket and flashed a warm smile to the camera as he posed at Mount Street Restaurant in London.

(Image: Alan Chapman/Dave Benett/Getty I)

Martin was in the capital to attend the evening meal, which was thrown by British GQ and Paul Smith to celebrate Excellence in Film with Saltburn star Barry Keoghan. Freeman’s appearance comes after his fans were recently left “grossed out” by his age gap sex scene with Wednesday actress Jenna Ortega.

The pair star in new erotic thriller Miller’s Girl and the Hollywood duo share a 31-year age gap in real life - Martin, 52 and Jenna, 21. Ortega plays an 18-year-old student named Cairo Sweet and Freeman is her teacher, Jonathan Miller.

(Image: Alan Chapman/Dave Benett/Getty I)

For a creative writing assignment, Cairo writes a sexually explicit story that would leave anyone red-faced. Things begin to escalate between the pair and promotional pictures show the actors embracing in a near-kiss pose.

The age gap romance has sparked rage online as fans flocked to X, formerly known as Twitter, to share their thoughts. One person wrote: “I think I am finally done watching these age gap movies. They are all gross and I am tired of it. No amount of Jenna Ortega or Martin Freeman could save this one for me.”

(Image: Lionsgate)

Someone else complained that one intimate clip was “the worst thing they’d ever seen” while another critic pointed out: “When Martin Freeman was in his 40s, Jenna Ortega was 10-years-old.”

The official synopsis of the film says: “As lines blur and their lives intertwine, professor and protégé must confront their darkest selves while straining to preserve their individual sense of purpose and the things they hold most dear.”

Have you joined Threads? Follow Daily Star to keep up to date on all things showbiz here