Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Dancing on Ice judge Oti Mabuse has been praised by fans after she posted a realistic moment in her life with her newborn.

The 33-year-ol stard, who is known for her glamorous appearance and incredible dance skills, stripped back for a candid snap as she celebrated Galantine's Day. Cradling her little one, Oti looked relaxed as she expressed some of the realities since becoming a nw mum.

She captioned the snap: "Happy Galentine’s Day. Messy uncombed hair, milky spots everywhere, wearing jumper on top and pyjama bottoms, mixed match socks but happy and content, wouldn’t be anywhere else."

READ MORE: Phillip Schofield’s wife will ‘never divorce him’ because she ‘still loves him’

READ MORE: Dancing on Ice's Holly says 'it's brutal' as fourth star is kicked out of series

After seeing her wholesome display, fans headed over to the comment section to send Oti love and encouragement. One social media user wrote: "As long as you are both well and happy. Nothing else matters."

(Image: Instagram/ @otimabuse)

Another said: "Thank you for opening up about your baby being premature it's a whirlwind of emotions that you explained amazingly on @mrsgifletcher podcast #happymumhappybaby." A third chimed: Such precious moments that fly by….. enjoy every beautiful snuggle." While a fourth added: "So sweet - and don’t worry about appearance at this stage. Just go with the flow and enjoy every previous moment.."

(Image: David Fisher/REX/Shutterstock)

The news comes after the former Striclty star revealed that she was diagnosed with sepsis shortly after giving birth. Oti and her husband Marius Iepure welcomed their daughter last year.

Their daughter, whose name hasn't been announced publicly yet, had to be placed in an incubator and spend six weeks in hospital after it was revealed that she suffered with jaundice. But while this was taking place, Oti discovered that she had sepsis.

(Image: Ken McKay/ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

Sepsis is life-threatening condition where the body responds incorrectly to infection and attacks itself. You can not catch sepsis from another person.

Speaking openly about what happened on the Happy Mum Happy Baby podcast, Oti said: "I think we didn't hold her for about a week because she was still in an incubator with the wires, and with jaundice so she was under blue light. And she had infections because it turned out that I had sepsis.

"What happened was the bacteria around the womb which protects your body, when it breaks it attacks the baby. So she had infections that they didn't have time to diagnose, so they had to give her antibiotics and see if she was okay."

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter