Amazon shoppers have hailed a "miracle in a bottle" spray that removes bathroom mould in minutes.

Over winter months, silicone sealant mould can be rife due to damp conditions and poor ventilation. Not only does it look nasty, but if the mould starts to produce mycotoxins, it can lead to respiratory issues.

But now, cleaning enthusiasts have found a mould spray that's been nicknamed "miracle in a bottle" after it helped them to remove the fungus "without scrubbing needed".

READ MORE: L'OR drops prices on coffee machine and gives away 100 coffee capsules for free

For all our top fashion picks, check out the best deals here

The HG Mould Spray, £5.25, is a mild anti-mould cleaner with a bleaching effect. It's quick and simple to use, all that is needed is to just spray it directly onto mould or mildew in damp areas and leave it to work for 30 minutes before cleaning the spot with water and a sponge.

(Image: Getty Images)

With over 33,000 reviews, the cleaning products scored 4.6 out of 5 stars and is listed on Amazon's Choice for mould remover.

Shoppers were shocked to see the quick results. One gave a five-star review and shared: "It works miracles! Our bathroom condensation was getting so bad that mould was growing quickly in and above the shower.

"It was getting to the point that I was embarrassed to have guests over! Ordered this and sprayed the whole shower and ceiling above the shower and left it.

Mould Spray HG Mould Spray Effortlessly eliminates all moulds, making filthy black stains created by mould disappear

Suitable for a wide range of surfaces: Removes mould & fungus from plastered walls, tiles, bathroom seals, windows & more

For indoor or outdoor use: Kills algae & mould marks around swimming pools, in the garage, shed, washing area, shower cubicle, sauna & conservatory £5.25 Amazon Buy Now

"Whilst it does say to leave it 30 minutes, I was cooking at the time so left it longer. After a couple of hours I went to check and was amazed to find everything gleaming white, not a single speck of mould and no scrubbing involved!"

Another wrote: "It's a miracle in a bottle! We have mainly used it on walls, grout and windows and this little bottle has cut out hours of scrubbing and lots of stress and worry.

"I don’t like the idea use of using chemicals but it really worries me about the health effects the damp has on my family and this £5 product has made a significant impact on our lengthy battle with trying to keep it away."

(Image: Getty Images)

A second said the HG Mould Spray is the "only one that is effective" despite having a strong bleach smell. And a third agreed, writing: "This stuff stinks to high heaven (strong bleach smell) but it got the black mould we found behind a chest of drawers off completely. There literally isn't a trace of it left at all."

If you prefer a cleaning product with less pungent smell, you can try the Astonish Mould & Mildew Blaster. The spray costs as little as £1.50 and is available from most major supermarkets.