Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Love Island winner Paige Turley could land a string of big-money deals when she makes her TV comeback.

The blonde bombshell, who famously dated Lewis Capaldi before her stint in the ITV villa, will be back on screens on the new series of Celebrity Ex on the Beach.

And experts say that being back in the spotlight after her Love Island win alongside Finley Tapp will boost her earning potential.

READ MORE: Love Island's Molly's 'flirty gesture' exposed as ex Callum spotted with 'huge grin'

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

An industry insider told us: “Paige being back on TV will be great for her career. It’ll reignite interest in her from fans. There will be offers to do fashion, social media and telly stuff.”

(Image: channel5.com)

Paige and Finley were crowned winners of the first ever winter Love Island series in 2020 but after a three-year relationship, Paige, 26, and Finn, 24, decided to go their separate ways, insisting they would remain good friends.

The reality stars will join a long list of famous faces jetting off to Gran Canaria in the explosive new series of Celebrity Ex on the Beach. The line-up includes TOWIE stars Yazmin Oukhellou and James Locke as well as Love Island alum Joe Garratt.

Yaz, 29, reportedly quit the show just days into filming following the arrival of her ex-boyfriend James. A source told The Sun : "Yaz knew filming Celeb Ex On The Beach would be challenging as the whole purpose of the show is to create drama. 'But within days of James arriving, she realised she couldn't cope with being in the villa with him and decided to leave."

(Image: Daily Mirror)

The series kicks off on March 19 on Paramount+ and MTV.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.