Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

A messy divorce left a bloke demanding his wife gave back the kidney he gave her – or £1.2million.

Dr Richard Batista opted not to go down the usual route of asking for the house or the other usual requests on the back of a divorce but instead opted to ask slightly more from his ex, back in 2009.

He and Dawnell, wed in 1990 and went on to have three children, but he has claimed that troubles in the marriage arose after his wife's medical issues came to a head.

READ MORE: Barber hits back at 'red flag' haircut price that 'should ring crime alarm bells'

For more of the lates t news from the Daily Star, click to the right of here.

He made the life-changing decision in 2001 to kindly donate one of his kidneys to his wife after she had sadly had two failed kidney transplants.

(Image: CBS)

At the time he said: "My first priority was to save her life. The second bonus was to turn the marriage around."

Despite saving her life, just four years later Dawnell filed for divorce, much to Dr Batista's dismay.

After accusing her of having an affair he angrily responded by demanding she either return his kidney or pay up a whopping $1.5 million. (£1.2m)

(Image: CBS)

Despite his bizarre demand medical experts agreed that it would be entirely impossible for Dawnell to undergo an operation to remove her kidney as medical ethicist Robert Veatch said: "It's her kidney now and ... taking the kidney out would mean she would have to go on dialysis or it would kill her."

To little surprise neither of Dr Batista's demands were met and in a 10-page decision, the Nassau County Supreme Court rejected his request.

Matrimonial referee Jeffrey Grob said: “The defendant’s effort to pursue and extract monetary compensation therefore not only runs afoul of the statutory prescription but conceivably may expose the defendant to criminal prosecution.”

To get more stories from the Daily Star delivered straight to your inbox, sign up to one of our free newsletters here.