Love Island fans believe they know which couple win the ITV2 series – but there's a problem.

At the end of Sunday night's episode (February 18), Tom Clare and Molly Smith, Callum Jones and Jess Gale, Toby Aromolaran and Georgia Steel, Anton Danyluk and Georgia Harrison and Josh Ritchie and Sophie Piper discovered they had made it to the Love Island All Stars final.

This was a surprise format change as normally only four couples make it to the end of the competition. Afterwards, fans couldn't help but share their thoughts regarding which duo they think will walk away with the crown.

READ MORE: Love Island fans left 'cringing' after Maya Jama shares outrageous genitals remark on air

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

A number of fans are convinced that Callum and Jess will win, but they're not as convinced on their connection. On X, formerly Twitter, they pointed out that the pair could take home the crown despite "barely speaking" to each other in the villa.

(Image: ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

"Not Callum and Jess winning when they barely speak to each other," wrote one viewer. Another penned: "Am I missing something why are people voting Callum and Jess when they have no chemistry ?? I get people love Callum but it’s the COUPLE that wins??"

A third agreed: "Every time Callum spoke about his couple he said he is happy nut never mentioned how they would last outside, he doesn't like Jess." Someone else asked: "Callum and Jess barely speak how are they surviving this."

(Image: ITV)

Another fumed: "Why am I seeing 50% votes for Jess and Callum and 50% votes for Sophie and josh? Jess and Callum have zero chemistry. Yes Callum is lovely but they make a boring couple." It comes after Adam Maxted and Arabella Chi narrowly missed out on the final following a savage dumping.

Last night's episode saw the return of the All Stars cast who arrived in the villa to send one couple packing. Each Islander was tasked with voting which couple they wanted to dump and their reason why.

It was a tie between Anton and Georgia H and Adam and Arabella, with the latter's former flame Joe Garratt handed the deciding vote. Joe put his decision down to Adam and Arabella not being as "strong as the rest".

The 32-year-old couldn't hide her emotions as she sobbed during her goodbyes. During her exit interview with host Maya Jama, Arabella revealed that she believed the Islanders made the wrong decision and should've voted for Anton and Georgia H, claiming that her connection with Adam was stronger than theirs.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.