Trisha Goddard has reassured fans she will "keep enjoying what I have always enjoyed" as she opens up about the return of her breast cancer diagnosis.

In a new interview with her doting husband, the 66-year-old broadcaster confessed that her cancer has returned after previously being diagnosed and recovering from the illness in 2008. She explained how she has been diagnosed with secondary breast cancer - also known as metastatic or stage 4 breast cancer - for which there is treatment but no cure.

The star received a diagnosis 19 months ago but has only decided to share the news publicly this week. Trisha said: "It's not going to go away and with that knowledge comes grief and fear.

READ MORE: Backstage secrets from Trish Goddard's show - free cigarettes to wild parties

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

"But I must keep enjoying what I have always enjoyed." The TV legend - who presented a talk show on Channel 5 from 2005 to 2009 - after previously hosting the BAFTA award winning show Trisha on ITV from 1998 to 2004.

(Image: ITV)

The star discussed her terminal cancer diagnosis and says she is only now informing the public that it has returned because she felt pressure from keeping the diagnosis to herself. However, she insisted that she doesn't want to be seen as "frail" by fans or those around her.

Speaking to Hello! magazine, the TV icon confessed she was tired of hiding her health issues from those she hadn't yet confided in. She explained: "I can't lie; I can't keep making up stories.

"It gets to a stage, after a year and a half, when keeping a secret becomes more of a burden than anything else." The TV star went on to share her fears about her diagnosis, adding: "My worry is that people will start seeing me as a frail little thing, and that if [the news] got out, I'd be judged, or people would change the way they are with me, or that I wouldn't work.

(Image: ITV)

"I'm a journalist; I don't want to be 'the story'. I don't want to be interviewing someone and for them to say to me, 'I'm so sorry'."

At the time, Trisha took to Instagram to share the news with her loyal legion of fans and highlight new new interview. Sharing the snaps from her glamorous interview, she wrote: "Doing this is tough... I've been keeping a difficult secret for 19 months now, but like my new hairstyle - I can't hide it anymore."

The star told the outlet that she found out her cancer had returned after receiving treatment following a horrifying fall at home. She slipped while running upstairs and injured herself which left her in excruciating pain.

(Image: WireImage)

After being stuck on the floor for three hours, she was able to alert the neighbours who called her an ambulance. Her husband Allen then met her at hospital where they were informed of the devastating development.

Allen told the magazine: "She was in acute pain... Then a young resident - like a junior doctor - came in and said, 'Oh, it looks as though you broke your femur and smashed your right hip, which is full of cancer cells.

"And you have a tumour. It doesn't look good." Trisha then added: "That was the first I heard that the cancer has come back. And the first thing I asked was. 'Am I going to die?'"

(Image: Instagram)

Her announcement was met with a wave of support from her doting followers who rushed to send her positive messages online. One user penned: "You look beautiful Trisha. Only wish this image was accompanying brighter news. Sending you strength, ease and all you need to get through this again."

Another agreed: "Oh no, oh no - I am heartbroken for you and the family. Stay strong and positive, you look beautiful." A third echoed: "Love you so much as you know, you inspire me every single day."

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.