A model who walked a runway at New York Fashion Week in nothing but tape has revealed it was her dad who encouraged her to take on the racy job.

Savannah Suarez, from New Jersey, was among more than a dozen models who took to the catwalk for the Black Tape Project's daring show at the prestigious fashion event, which came to a close on February 14. The 23-year-old strutted down the runway in a carefully arranged pattern of black body tape that showed off her stunning figure.

It marked Savannah's third time walking for the raunchy brand, which is the brainchild of designer Joel Alvarez. She started modelling for them after being scouted but revealed it was her dad who first introduced her to them.

READ MORE: 'I'm a Christian turned witch – pals ditched me and pray for my salvation'

For more real life stories, click here.

Speaking exclusively to the Daily Star, Savannah recalled: "My dad had actually seen one of the articles that came out about Miami Swim week a few years ago and he sent it to me and he was like, 'If you got this opportunity would you do it?'" At first, Savannah wasn't keen on the idea because of all the "negative terms" that had been used to describe the sexy tape outfits.

(Image: Getty Images for Art Hearts Fashion)

But her parents helped her change her mind and now Savannah, who owns her own swimwear brand, sees it as no different to wearing a bikini. She added: "I really sat for a second and talked about it with my parents who are my biggest support system and I was like 'Wait, it's showing the same amount of skin as a bikini, there's nothing different other than the fact that it's tape.' So once I changed my mindset to that and I was like, 'Yeah, I would actually do that' and I got approached with the opportunity."

Savannah's family, including her grandparents, are "so supportive" of her modelling work and think the shows are "really cool". She revealed her dad even came to her first show, while her mum joined him at her second.

While having your family see you in such a revealing get-up might be a nightmare for some people, Savannah claimed it's all about how you perceive it. She explained: "It's different depending on how you view the world.

"If you see things from an artistic standpoint or if you want to over-sexualize it like you can sexualize it all you want to, I get it's sexy but at the end of the day it's art." Savannah's dad is "very supportive and open-minded" about her career and she loves having him at her shows.

(Image: Getty Images)

"I know it's rare. Every time I tell someone my dad came to my show they're like 'Your dad came?!' But I wouldn't have it any other way. I'm very grateful," she said.

While it takes a lot of confidence to walk for the Black Tape Project, Savannah still found her first show "nerve-wracking". But this time around she was feeling braver than ever.

"I've done it twice before so it was like 'It can't really be that much different'. My design last year was a little more revealing than the one this year but to me, it's the same as wearing a bikini down the runway," she said.

Savannah explained Joel comes up with his designs "in the moment" and each one is individually designed for the model's body type. But while the models appear nearly nude as they get taped up, they do have a bit of their modesty covered.

She said: "You get something that's called a p**** patch and it's just a piece of tape that you put on your private area yourself, you can go to the bathroom and do it. No one sees that so when you're getting taped the only thing that's out if you're comfortable to start is your breasts."

(Image: savannah.isabella/Instagram)

While it might look like it would be painful to remove, Savannah also revealed taking the tape off usually doesn't hurt. She said: "You're sitting backstage in your tape for a few hours before you go on so with that being said alone you might sweat a little bit, the tape isn't going to be as sticky. It's not gonna come off but it's not as adhesive as it was when you first put it on.

"It also depends on how much hair you have on your body, if you're more hairy it's probably gonna hurt a little bit more and we also oil and lotion up before we walk on. So by the time that you're done after all those things come together, it's very easy to get off. It doesn't hurt at all."

The model and content creator has "never felt more confident" since taking part in the "liberating" shows. She said: "The confidence that you get from walking in that show is unmatched, nobody can ever say anything to me to make me feel self-conscious again after that, in a humble way.

"You're going on stage in next to nothing in front of all these people that you don't know. It's like being in front of an audience and putting on a speech and picturing everybody naked but you're the naked one, so it's just very liberating."

She also claims the other models are some of the "most amazing humble beautiful women ever". She added: "It's the type of people that you see and you would think that they're judging you or that they're cocky or they have a certain type of view of the world because of how attractive they are but I have made some of my best friends from walking in the show."