Kristen Stewart thinks it’s “ridiculous” to fake sex on camera – and during one of her film stints, something else was a lot more frightening than stripping off.

The Twilight star opened up on one of her early sex scenes, back in 2012 release On The Road. Kristen starred as Marylou in the film, which followed young writer Sal as he travels across the country with his pal Dean, encountering a mix of people who each affect their journey. Based on the bestselling book by Jack Kerouac, the movie also starred Garrett Hedlund and Amy Adams.

She admitted at the time: “I wasn’t really having sex. To be honest, I think if you were to isolate the scenes, it's fairly ridiculous watching yourself fake have sex. But within the movie, watching the movie, I do get so caught up in this one. I've seen it three times, and that’s not typical for me."

READ MORE: Meghan Markle's wedding had 'terrible smell' and secret cameras in flowers, says co-star

READ MORE: Want more showbiz? Daily Star has just the thing for you!

What scared her most, however, was her dancing scene. She admitted: “The dancing scene was so much more terrifying than any of the sex scenes were for me. I was so scared of it. We crammed, I think, 60 extras into a tiny little room. Literally, I could feel the floor vibrating. It was so f***ing cool. But I was terrified."

Now Kristen is all set for her latest raunchy flick, Love Lies Bleeding, in which she plays a butch lesbian who falls for muscular girl Jackie. She found filming “really sexy” and admitted becoming aroused in front of her fellow cast members.

She told Vogue: “I don’t mean from an outsider’s perspective: I felt turned on by it, and it was cool to have people witness that.” She said the film contains a bathroom romp that is “going to shock people”, and opened up about how she felt labelled by critics before coming out as gay in 2017.

(Image: Lionsgate Films)

She revealed: “The idea of people going, ‘I knew that you were a little queer kid forever.’ I’m like, ‘Oh, yeah? Well, you should honestly have seen me f**k my first boyfriend.’” Kristen is now engaged to fiancée Dylan Meyer, who has branded Kristen her “#1 crush” in a sweet tribute.

Gushing over her fiancée in a Valentine’s Day post, Dylan penned: “Happy Valentine’s to my #1 crush, the hottest cat mom in the game. I am just so, so into you.” While Kristen told Rolling Stone: “Luckily my girlfriend, my partner, we are into the same s**t. We have taken the things that we’re spending our time on and interlocked them, and we’re so much f***ing smarter and stronger together. And you’re just like, ‘F***, that is the best.’”

(Image: Moviestore/REX/Shutterstock)

For more of the latest showbiz news from Daily Star, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.

Speaking of her wedding, she admitted: “We don’t have it in us to have a big wedding. We’re probably just going to do it soon. We just are busy trying to make movies because they’re our babies.

“I don’t know what my family’s going to look like, but there’s no f***ing way that I don’t start acquiring kids. And also, ideally at some point soon I go, ‘I want to have a kid.’ I really want that to happen.”

Follow Daily Star on Threads here.