Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Emmerdale star Scarlett Archer admitted she prefers playing prostitutes.

The actress appeared as Jai Sharma's (Chris Bisson) love interest Nell Fairfax for six months in 2017. Despite being best known for her role on the ITV soap, Scarlett kickstarted her career as a teenager.

In a previous interview with The Sun on Sunday, the former soap star explained that her "working-class accent" landed her a number of racy roles. She told the publication: "When you have a working-class accent you do go for a lot of ­prostitute roles — and I have played a lot of prostitutes."

READ MORE: Emmerdale babe felt 'liberated' by topless sex scene that took '14 hours to film'

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

And some of her scenes were so raunchy that she couldn't let her nan watch. The star explained: "The last film I did was White Island where I had a sex scene where my character was in not a lot of underwear and handcuffed to the bed.

(Image: ITV)

"My nan was asking me afterwards if she could see it. I had to ­pretend I couldn’t find the tape." She couldn't keep all family members away however, admitting she watched the raunchy movie with her aunt and uncle in the cinema – an experience she branded "very strange".

Scarlett added: "Those scenes are never nice, ­especially as there are always ­people on set watching. But I do love gritty roles and I’d rather play a prostitute than the pretty girlfriend."

(Image: Ken McKay/ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

Although filming on-screen romps is far from comfortable, the Doctors star confessed that she was open to filming sex scenes on Emmerdale because her past experience meant she would be well prepared.

“The great thing about playing a prostitute so many times is that if Emmerdale asks me to do any sex scenes, I know I’m definitely prepared," she said. "Emmerdale is quite ‘PG’ in ­–comparison to some of those roles."

Scarlett went on: "The kissing scenes I’ve done so far were weird and awkward, but thankfully over very quickly." Nell was introduced to Jai at a Narcotics Anonymous meeting where he opened up about his late girlfriend Holly Barton (Sophie Powles) and how he blamed himself for her death.

Jai and Nell began a relationship, but it soon became clear that Nell had an obsession with Holly. Nell was eventually exposed as a con-woman who lied about having an addiction as well as losing a child, while Jai also discovered newspaper clippings about Holly's death in her possession.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.