Former Hollyoaks star Alfie Browne-Sykes is enaged.

He used to play Jason Roscoe in the Channel 4 soap but has since swapped the village for fixing roofs. Now, the actor has told everyone on Instagram that he and his girlfriend Aimee Scott are going to tie the knot.

Alfie, 29, popped the question and showed off the sparkly engagement ring in a cute pic with Aimee. They held hands and the ring was shining bright. The lovebirds hinted at their future as Mr and Mrs Browne-Sykes in their post.

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

Loads of people are chuffed for them, including some of Alfie's old mates from Hollyoaks. Jamie Lomas, who plays Warren Fox on the show, said: "Go on mate. Congratulations." Maxine Minniver actress Nikki Sanderson sent her best wishes too.

(Image: mrbrownesykes/Instagram)

Anna Passey, best known as Sienna Blake, cheered: "Congratulations to you both! Lovely news." And Nadine Mulkerrin, who portrays the role Cleo McQueen, gushed: "Awww amazing. So happy for you." Fans joined in to say how over the moon they were. One said the ring was beautiful, another said it was fantastic news, and someone else just went with a big "Massive congratulations."

(Image: mrbrownesykes/Instagram)

Alfie, who was a big hit on Hollyoaks from 2013 to 2016, played Jason Roscoe, Robbie's twin brother. He even got hitched to Holly Cunningham in the show. After he waved goodbye to the soap, Alfie started working as a roofer but he didn't give up acting completely. He popped up in CBBC's The Dumping Ground in 2017 and has been in a new movie called Sublime this year.

(Image: LIME PICTURES)

Alfie previously talked about his roofing work on the Just Real with Joseph James podcast. He said: "Going to work every day, working on people's roofs and whatever, and people recognise you from Hollyoaks - that's like a hard thing to deal with at first, especially when people make comments to you and they don't realise what they are saying to you."

On the same podcast, which came out in 2021, Alfie shared that he's still chasing his dream of acting. He mentioned: "trying to crack on" with his acting and "pursue that career". Alfie also said that getting the right parts can be really tricky.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter