Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Optical illusions are a fun way to boost your intelligence.

Some puzzles boost problem-solving skills, while others could be a great method to work out your IQ score. Now if you want to test your eyesight, we've got just the brainteaser.

According to the creators, only people with supersonic vision can find the crocodile hiding among the iguanas. You have just five seconds to solve it.

READ MORE: Join the Daily Star's WhatsApp for the sexiest headlines, showbiz gossip and lots more

You can read more lifestyle stories from Daily Star here.

So grab your timer and see how speedy you can be trying to find the reptile. Don't forget to leave a comment below the article too!

(Image: Bright Side)

The beauty of these illusions is they test your eyesight and can boost problem-solving skills. While they might seem simple at first, the timer can make it difficult.

Still struggling with the brainteaser? Scroll down below...

You can always start by scanning each area of the image to find the crocodile. Look at each section of the puzzle and try to think outside the box.

It won't be simple to find at first, but those with incredible observation skills do get a head start. Well done to those who managed to complete it within the time frame!

And if you struggled, don't worry as you could conquer the next one with ease!

(Image: Bright Side)

Challenging yourself with mind-boggling tests like this one can come with plenty of positives in the long run. Recent research shows it could even stop your brain from ageing.

It comes as research by the University of Exeter and King's College London found similar exercises can brush-up adults' recall and improve brain function by a decade.

Some experts also believe they encourage lateral thinking, which can keep us feeling creative and fulfilled. And there's nothing more satisfying than tackling a new problem!

Looking for more? You have the sharpest eyes if you can spot the captain's sword in this optical illusion. Also a tricky brainteaser could determine if you have 20/20 vision.

Want all the biggest Lifestyle news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Hot Topics newsletter