Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

UFC fans were left wincing after Mark Zuckerberg was involved in a painfully ‘awkward’ encounter on his way to the ring.

The Facebook founder accompanied Alex Volkanovski for his match with Ilia Topuria on Saturday night at the Honda Centre in California, before Volkanovski tried to defend his featherweight title. Moments, before the fighters entered the cage, one person on X (formerly Twitter), thought they noticed Zuckerberg “awkwardly attempting a handshake” with a kitman.

The Meta boss was left hanging and painfully stared into the distance. “I’ve never witnessed someone try so hard to be human” wrote one amused X user.

READ MORE:Mark Zuckerberg gets slaughterhouse cows hooked on booze – 'most delicious' project yet

For more news on Mark Zuckerberg, click here

Someone else chimed: “Trying hard to be normal. Oh the struggles of a Billionaire. Mark is a good chap." Others tried to explain Zuckerberg’s weird behaviour, with one writing: "He don't like the spotlight, I bet he's all up in his head in this moment. 'Am I standing correctly? Is the camera on me? Am I supposed to help? What do I do?'"

Things turned from bad to worse for Zuckerberg after his mate Volkanovski got floored by Topuria in the second round, ending his reign of five title defences over four years.

Discussing his decision to have Zuckerberg walk to the cage with him, Volkanovski said: "He was coming to watch and everybody knows that I’m mates with him and I chat to him regularly. I said ‘I’d love to have you walk out with me’.

"And he said ‘As long as it doesn’t get in your way’ and of course it didn’t. It was something different."

This comes after Zuckerberg trained alongside Volkanovski and former UFC champion Israel Adesanya last year amid rumours of a potential cage match with Elon Musk.

Musk, who took control of X in October 2023, tweeted that he was 'up for a cage fight' with Zuckerberg. In response the Meta boss seemed to agree to take up the challenge by screenshotting Musk’s tweet and replying: ‘send me the location’.