Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

A leading weather forecaster has said "widespread snow" is coming to the UK this week, possibly impacting everywhere from Scotland down to southern England.

Exacta Weather forecaster James Madden has pinpointed Thursday (February 22) as when wintry conditions should take hold, with "cold winds from the north/northwest" bringing a "much colder theme to all parts of the country".

Madden said: "From the early hours of Thursday initially sees bands of heavy precipitation pushing in and turning to sleet and snow across large parts of Ireland. These could also turn into heavy snow showers in some parts to the north and east of Ireland within this period.

READ MORE: Exact dates 'double snow event' to batter Brits as UK set for cold plunge

Click for the latest weather maps and forecasts from the Daily Star.

(Image: Getty Images)

"These snow showers will then literally filter in from west to east across large parts of Scotland, northern England and into parts of Wales to begin with. However, as these snow showers and heavy snow showers continue in these parts throughout Thursday and on Friday, we will begin to snow in some parts as far south as some central areas and Yorkshire regions."

Madden added "wintry weather is also possible in parts of southern England" on Thursday and Friday, although a "much better opportunity" for snow in those regions will come at the weekend.

(Image: PA)

He said: "It is important to note that during this period and into next weekend will also be likely to see snow continuing in many regions away from southern England, particularly, but not restricted to large parts of Scotland, Northern Ireland, northern England and Wales."

Advanced weather modelling maps from WX Charts show the probability of snow falling in north-west Scotland sits at 95% at 6pm on Thursday. There is also an 85% to 95% probability elsewhere in Scotland and northern England.

(Image: WX Charts)

In Wales the probability of snow sits at 70% to 80%. In parts of Northern Ireland and the Midlands it is 60% to 70%. The most likely spots in southern England appear to sit at 20% to 30%.

For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.