Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Celeb’s Go Dating expert Anna Williamson has lifted the lid on the secret to a long-lasting relationship for Islanders outside of the villa.

Love Island fans have been gripped to their screens for the past five weeks as some of the biggest icons from previous seasons have returned for a second chance at love. This weekend, contestants have been counting down the hours in the lead up to the epic live final on Monday (February 19) night.

Now, as the E4 dating guru teams up with Cadbury to solve the UK’s dating dilemmas using a Creme Egg, she has revealed the most important factor to keep a relationship alive outside of the South African villa. Speaking exclusively to Daily Star, the blonde bombshell, 42, explained what contestants will need to work on to keep the spark alive when they return to the UK.

READ MORE: Love Island fans left 'cringing' after Maya Jama shares outrageous genitals remark on air

READ MORE:Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

She told us: “I mean being completely honest with you, they need to have the right foundations and intentions around the relationship.” The mum-of-two went on to confess that the hugely popular ITV2 reality show is often a platform stars use to become TV personalities.

(Image: Cadbury Creme Egg)

Anna went on: “Love Island’s been going long enough now for it to be a very useful transactional tool for careers. And I think that’s the honest truth about it.

“We have seen some wonderful authentic couples as a result of Love Island which is brilliant. But I think the authentic couples are the ones that are conducting their relationship behind closed doors and not putting it all out there on social media or for paparazzi for everybody to see.”

The dating expert reflected on the work she has done with former Love Island stars in the past, and how their relationships have developed since leaving the show. She continued: “I’ve done a lot of couples work actually with Love Island couples behind the scenes and we very much encourage them to carve out that private life.

(Image: ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

“Because if you’re living your life publicly all the time, there’s nothing just for you. And that means that you are open to the wide opinion of everybody and even the strongest couples in the world would find that very difficult to sustain that level of scrutiny, pressure, opinions and indeed temptation once you’re outside of the bubble.”

Anna then went on to share one of the main reasons why many Love Island couples separate months after the show ends. The loving mum explained: “When you’re in that bubble of the villa, it’s called the Law of Proximity, when you are close to somebody with no other distractions.

“You’ve got no phones, no other people, no loved ones, no families. When you are out, suddenly you have all these different things you will be doing and relationships always typically come under strain.”

(Image: ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

As the finalists prepare to pack their bags for one final day in the villa, the relationship expert passed on her final words of wisdom to help sustain the spark in their romance. She concluded: “So my advice is to sustain those relationships.

“What is the intention in your relationship? Are you there to cash cow in your relationship? Or are you there to actually make it a meaningful relationship?

“I think it’s really important to be very clear about that and be on the same page. Whatever your decision is with that, be on the same page.”

(Image: ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

Speaking about her campaign with Cadburys, she stressed the importance of partner's eating habits. She explained: "From my work matchmaking famous faces, I love any tool that people can use to better connect with each other and work out if they are soulmates.

"I have seen far too many relationships crack under pressure thanks to someone's eating habits, so if I can help just one person avoid a dating catastrophe or find their perfect partner, I would have done my job right!"

Cadbury Creme Eggs are available in retailers nationwide for 75p (40g). Retailers are free to set their own pricing.

Love Island: All Stars final airs on Monday (February 19) from 9pm on ITV2 or catch up on ITVX.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.