Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Nigella Lawson has told us the best way to butter our toast, and it's got people talking.

Everyone loves a slice of buttery toast for brekkie. You grab some butter, spread it on your toast and munch away, right? But Nigella says there's a special way we should be doing it, and not everyone agrees with her.

She made a video in 2020 for BBC Two's "Cook Eat Repeat" where she talks about her "two-stage buttering approach". While chilling in her garden with some toast, Nigella shared: "I favour the two-stage buttering approach and so far, only stage one has taken place."

READ MORE: People are only just realising what condensed milk actually is

Read all the latest lifestyle news by the team at Daily Star

She tells us that as soon as the toast is done, you've got to butter it so it melts right in. This makes it super yummy, like a crumpet, she says.

For most of us, that's it, and we're ready to eat. Maybe we'll slap on some jam or Marmite if we're feeling fancy. But Nigella says hold on – there's more! She reckons the second bit is where it gets really good.

(Image: Getty Images/Foodcollection)

According to Mirror, Nigella said: "Stage two now, ready for it, I need a little more butter and it will stay in some golden patches on the surface. It is unsalted butter, which I always prefer to use, but what I need to do is sprinkle some sea salt flakes over. This is the platonic ideal of toast."

Fans of the cooking star are chatting on social media about her "double buttered toast" idea. Some think it's brilliant, while others say it's a bit too much.

One person said: "Nigella telling people to double butter and salt their toast is the kind of public service announcement I've waited MONTHS for."

(Image: Dave Benett/Getty Images)

Another person posted: "I once saw Nigella make toast on the telly. Buttered it when hot. Then allowed it to cool, and buttered it again. It's a game changer. Probably not the healthiest option mind".

Someone else wrote: "Absolutely thank all religious entities for Nigella introducing me to the concept of double-buttered toast."

But not everyone is on board. One person asked why Nigella would use unsalted butter and then add salt, instead of just using salted butter.

Another person said: "Nigella put me off her food when she sprinkled salt flakes all over buttered toast."

Want all the biggest Lifestyle news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Hot Topics newsletter