Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get the best celeb gossip with the Daily Star Showbiz newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get the best celeb gossip with the Daily Star Showbiz newsletter

BAFTA has issued a statement regarding an apparent Matthew Perry snub during the award show’s 2024 film event.

Friends actor Matthew Perry, best known for his role as Chandler Bing in the 90s cult classic sitcom Friends, will instead be honoured at the TV Award ceremony instead. After public outcry during the BAFTA Film Awards, which were held on 18 February, the organisation’s official X (formerly known as Twitter) account assured fans he will be remembered.

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: Kim Cattrall's forgotten Sex And The City lesbian romance and that bathtub scene

One viewer questioned why there was “no Matthew Perry” mentioned and BAFTA responded: “Matthew Perry will be remembered in this year’s TV Awards ceremony. You can also find our tribute to Matthew at [link to BAFTA ‘In Memory Of…’ page]”

(Image: Getty Images)

During the event, which aired on Sunday, the British Academy of Film and Television Arts hosted their film awards and paid tribute to faces from the industry who have sadly passed since the last awards show. Ted Lasso star Hannah Waddingham sang a solemn version of Cyndi Lauper’s hit single Time After Time as the In Memoriam segment played.

Many famous faces flashed up on screen, including Jane Birkin, Carl Weathers and Tina Turner just to name a few. The audience and viewers took a moment to remember those we’ve lost, but a few noticed Perry’s absence and took to social media to share their thoughts.

(Image: Getty Images)

Many were furious as they asked “who makes these decisions,” while one person wrote: “If there was something I was bitterly disappointed about tonight at the BAFTAs was the failure to acknowledge the passing of Matthew Perry [...].”

(Image: zz/NDZ/STAR MAX/IPx)

Someone come to BAFTAs defence and posted: “I suspect Matthew Perry, David McCallum and the mighty Bernard Cribbins will get their acknowledgements at the BAFTA TV Awards, a medium on which they arguably had their greatest impact. But I appreciate they feel like howling omissions.”

Although Perry rose to fame playing the lovable Chandler Bing, he was also known for his Hollywood film roles which include Fools Rush In, The Whole Nine Yards, The Whole Ten Yards and 17 Again.

Have you joined Threads? Follow Daily Star to keep up to date on all things showbiz here