For the latest from the pitch sign up for our football newsletter

For the latest from the pitch sign up for our football newsletter

Erik ten Hag has criticised three Manchester United stars for making an 'easy game' difficult by spurning chances against Luton.

United picked up their fifth straight victory after winning 2-1 at Kenilworth Road on Sunday. But the visitors were made to cling on for all three points despite racing into a two-goal lead after just seven minutes.

Rasmus Hojlund opened the scoring after just 36 seconds, then he made it two while the game was still in its opening exchanges. At that point, it looked like United could run away with it, only to see Carlton Morris halve the deficit in the 14th minute.

READ MORE: Rasmus Hojlund scores after 36 seconds vs Luton as Man Utd star breaks record

READ MORE: Ralf Rangnick's only Man Utd signing could finally make debut after joining training

This article contains affiliate links, we will receive a commission on any sales we generate from it. Learn more Watch football, F1, golf, tennis, cricket and more Get all the sport you could ever ask for Sky Sports is bringing you 500 live football games to watch, as well access to Cricket, Golf, F1, Boxing, NFL, NBA and more across eight dedicated channels. Sky Sports is the only way to watch all the action this year. £22 a month Sky Get it here

The Red Devils side continued to create - and miss - chances, with the home support growing in belief as the game wore on. United ultimately held on to keep the pressure on the teams above them, but Ten Hag picked out Marcus Rashford, Alejandro Garnacho and Bruno Fernandes for failing to convert opportunities.

"I think quick up and, as you say, we had good chances with Garnacho and Rashford, it could have been three or four-nil," the United chief told Match of the Day (via Daily Mirror). "After that we lose some focus and we are not so strict in what we should do and they came more in the game. We dropped too deep and allowed them too many passes.

Where do you think Man Utd will finish in the Premier League this season? Let us know in the comments section below.

(Image: League match between Luton Town and Manchester United at Kenilworth Road on February 18, 2024 in Luton, England. (Photo by Catherine Ivill/Getty Images)

"We gave some chances away and they got the 2-1. That's no good. But after half-time we picked it up. We had several chances. So many chances one against one. I think it was Garnacho, Rashford again, it was Bruno Fernandes. We had so many chances, it should be 3-1 in these moments."

He added: "Their goal brought the pressure on. They had crosses into the box and shots, but not the chances we had. We had big chances and with our abilities, we should have scored. We make the progress but also you see we have to stay focused during the whole game. I will not say switch off, but when you do a little bit less, then you get punished.

(Image: Ash Donelon/Manchester United via Getty Images)

Join the Daily Star's WhatsApp for the sexiest headlines, showbiz gossip and lots more The Daily Star is now on WhatsApp and we want you to join us! Through the app, we'll send you the sassiest showbiz stories, some naught headline and a seismic smattering of aliens...along with the latest breaking news of course. To join our community, all you have to do to join is click on this link, select 'Join Chat' and you're in! No one will be able to see who has sign up and no one can send messages except for the Daily Star team. We also treat our community members to competitions, special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don’t like our community, you can check out any time you like. To leave our community click on the name at the top of your screen and choose Exit group. If you’re curious, you can read our Privacy Notice. CLICK HERE TO JOIN

"We can't afford this. We have to be all-time 100 per cent focused. Do your job together, in and out of possession and then you can control your games. What could have been an easy win was now a difficult win."

United's win brought them within three points of fifth-place Tottenham and five behind Aston Villa in fourth. "We're back in the race," Ten Hag told Sky Sports. "Now we just need to keep the momentum. We need to put the pressure on the teams ahead of us, we just need to go from game-to-game and know every game is a final for us."