An obsessed stalker who targeted Laura Woods for over two years and threatened to kill her dog has now been jailed.

TNT Sports and ITV Sport presenter Woods, 36, was reportedly left in "real fear" because of the actions of Liverpool fan Harneet Kaur, 25, who was given a 14-month sentence last Friday (February 16). Kaur began her obsessive campaign in June 2021 and it lasted until September of last year.

During that time she sent a bible, sexual health tests and food orders to Woods' London home, and also directed derogatory messages towards her on social media under the alias 'Krazy Harns'.

READ MORE: Laura Woods and Adam Collard have four 'near death experiences' on romantic skiing trip

READ MORE: Laura Woods' rise to becoming millionaire – from Sky Sports runner to TNT host

That's according to the Daily Mail, who report how Kaur first ordered a box of Krispy Kreme doughnuts via Just Eat for Woods, who posted a picture on Twitter, now X, to thank the mystery buyer for "making her evening".

She soon realised there was something more sinister going on when a Starbucks order and a lollipop with the message "from your secret admirer and I'm not crazy" arrived. Data from Kaur's iPad showed she visited the road where Woods lives the following month.

(Image: Instagram/laurawoodsy)

It was around that time that the online hate began, including calling Woods a "vile, stuck-up person" and a "former prostitute who slept herself into a job", as well as threatening to kidnap and kill her dog. She was arrested in April 2022 and again in August of that year, with police seizing her devices on both occasions.

But the abuse continued, with Kaur posting insulting comments on Woods' Wikipedia page and saying she wasn't welcome at Anfield ahead of a televised Liverpool match. She posted "wtf is that coke head doing at Anfield" and a picture of Woods' face on the body of an overweight man.

(Image: Instagram/laurawoodsy) (Image: Getty Images)

Prosecutors said Kaur had left Woods, who suffers with anxiety and has upped security at both her home and when at work, with a "real fear" she would get close to her. They sought a banning order from every football stadium in the country, as well as large part of London and the entirety of Newcastle where Woods' partner Adam Collard lives.

Her victim impact statement also said Kaur had an "enormous and devastating" effect on her life. The defence, meanwhile, attempted to explain that Kaur's autism led to the "obsession and compulsion".

Judge Talog Davies refused to accept the argument that she didn't know the impact of what she was doing, but said the prosecution's requests were too draconian. As well as the 14-month sentence, he imposed a restraining order which bans Kaur from contacting Woods and 15 other people, and from going within 500m of her home.