Loose Women babe and pop sensation Frankie Bridge showed off her fashion finds in her latest post.

The singer took to Instagram to share a reel of her favourite denim picks as she pulled out different items of clothing and tried them on in front of the camera. From jeans and a blazer to oversized hoodies, Frankie's looks captivated the attention of her fans.

One look which was a firm favourite saw Frankie done some stunning River Island jeans (£38) and a cropped trench coat. Frankie also paired the jeans with a simple white top and turned around with her hands in her pockets to show off the shape.

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE: River Island looks from Frankie Bridge and Rochelle Humes are under £30 in sale

The beauty tucked in the front of her T-shirt and added a pair of sunnies to complete the look as she fluffed her hair up to frame the piece.

(Image: frankiebridge/Instagram)

She then swapped out the trench and T-shirt for a £65 beige waistcoat and ditched her bra underneath as she strutted towards the camera. Frankie showed off multiple different outfits as she donned some black jeans with a satin white blouse in another look.

Opting for a comfortable ensemble, Frankie wowed in some wide leg jeans and a comfy top before adding a lemon coat and a pair of black shoes to complete the outfit.

(Image: frankiebridge/Instagram)

As she shared the Reel to Instagram, Frankie swooned over denim as her style choice for the week. She wrote to her fans: "I don't know about you guys but I always struggle to find good jeans for my height (I'm 5"3)... but River Island are always a denim go-to for me."

Frankie praised their new selection to add to her Spring wardrobe and was all smiles as she showed them off from different angles.

(Image: frankiebridge/Instagram)

Her fans were quick to swoon over the look with one person writing: "Thank you for so much inspiration, sometimes don't know what to wear and this is all me!"

While another said: "Obsessed with everything!" A third person wrote: "Gorgeous collection!"

Frankie has a weekly rundown of her favourite outfits every Sunday from generic wardrobe favourites to working with brands to show off some new styles.

M&S also put out their spring fashion and shoppers were in love with this cream-coloured faux leather trench coat that's perfect for tran-seasonal weather.

Swedish fashion giant H&M's wide leg jeans are also very popular among trendsetters, this Baggy Wide Low Ankle Jeans is great to go with fitted tops or oversized sweaters.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.