Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Coronation Street favourite Antony Cotton has revealed his sweet nickname for his close co-star Samia Longchambon.

Over the past few months, ITV fans have been glued to their screens as bully Mason Radcliffe (played by Luca Toolan) has wreaked havoc at Weatherfield High School. Viewers have watched Liam Connor (Charlie Wrenshall) and Dylan Wilson (Liam McCheyne) be terrorised by the student ever since he arrived on the Street.

After months of bullying his fellow students, Mason has built up quite a reputation for himself both inside and outside the school grounds. Tensions have been rising between Dylan and Mason as Liam takes a dark turn after being bullied every day.

READ MORE: Corrie fans gobsmacked at 'horny' soap icon Mary Taylor as new love interest 'sealed'

READ MORE: Coronation Street's Ryan star teases love triangle 'chaos' as he confirms soap return

But it’s not just the children who are being affected by the Mason’s cruelty, as the Sean Tully star has warned fans to expect a fierce row to uproar over the safety of their children in upcoming episodes.

(Image: ITV)

In an interview with Daily Star and other press, the TV favourite explained how difficult it has been filming tense scenes with Samia as their characters lock horns. He told us: “I adore Samia, I love Samia so much – Samwise Gamgee as I call her.

“I’ve loved working with her, and they [Seana and Maria] always do get on, of course. Maria’s a hairdresser and Sean loves [getting his hair done]. But their character’s friendship will be called into question as Liam takes a turn for the worse.

He went on: “But when it’s about the kids, this is where it all goes wrong. You hear about families falling out over their kids.

(Image: MCPIX/REX/Shutterstock)

“And I think it’s because one sees them as their precious angel and the other one perhaps knows more of the truth. So I think that’s what’s happening with Sean and Maria a little bit.

“Whether or not they’ll be able to make up [is out of my hands].” The soap star went on to reassure fans that the pair will become friends again in the future, but it will take time for them to heal from the children’s horrific bullying ordeal.

Antony insisted: “But, listen, Sean’s everybody’s friend. So, I imagine that all will be well in the end but it’s probably going to take a year for us to get there.” Samia went on to share her hopes for the pair to repair their friendship in the future.

(Image: ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

Have you joined Threads? Follow Daily Star to keep up to date on all things showbiz here .

She explained: “It does affect her and Sean’s friendship. Maria and Sean have always been alright with each other apart from that period where she was with Marcus, Sean’s boyfriend, years ago.

“But since then, they’ve had quite a good relationship. Obviously, this has a massive effect on their relationship because at the moment, Sean is in complete denial that little Dylan is in the wrong at all.

“But I think eventually he is going to learn the truth and hopefully they’ll be able to get back on track.” Viewers will have to stay tuned to see if the close pals will be able to repair their friendship on the cobbles.

Coronation Street airs on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays from 8pm on ITV1 or catch up on ITVX.