Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Bayern Munich's loss could prove to be Manchester United's gain in the transfer market this summer.

And that refers to losing in the literal sense after the record 33-time Bundesliga champions fell eight points off the summit on Sunday. Thomas Tuchel's side suffered a third straight loss in all competitions at Bochum, where Joshua Kimmich appeared perplexed at his replacement just after the hour mark.

Die Roten were trailing 2-1 at the time of his withdrawal and fell two goals behind before Harry Kane grabbed another consolation for the guests. And many couldn't help but take notice of Kimmich's crazed expression on the Bayern bench.

READ MORE: Erik ten Hag told by Man Utd icon to ditch six targets – and make two different transfers

READ MORE: Gabby Agbonlahor reignites Gary Neville feud with 'slow' comment after Sky star's jibe

This article contains affiliate links, we will receive a commission on any sales we generate from it. Learn more Watch football, F1, golf, tennis, cricket and more Get all the sport you could ever ask for Sky Sports is bringing you 500 live football games to watch, as well access to Cricket, Golf, F1, Boxing, NFL, NBA and more across eight dedicated channels. Sky Sports is the only way to watch all the action this year. £22 a month Sky Get it here

The look was either in response to his own withdrawal while his side still trailed, or at the general drop in standards under Tuchel of late. Either way, it could play into United's hands amid reports Kimmich is unsettled in Bavaria.

"Get him to United now," wrote one Reds fan in response to a picture of Kimmich's expression on the Bayern bench. Other German supporters took the stance that the player lacked professionalism, with one commenting: "First time Kimmich isn’t given preferential treatment and this is how he acts. Our 'future captain' is a joke."

What would be a fair price for Kimmich this summer? Let us know in the comments section below.

(Image: REX/Shutterstock)

The Germany midfielder and right-back utility has a contract at the Allianz Arena until 2025 and is understood to be considering his options elsewhere. Kimmich, 29, has been a key part of the Bayern XI for close to a decade, but this summer could present a rare opportunity to land the player for a realistic fee due to his contract situation.

United, meanwhile, moved up to fifth in the Premier League and breathed new life into their Champions League qualification hopes after a 2-1 win at Luton on Sunday. Erik ten Hag's men have now won five in a row in all competitions, sitting just three points off Tottenham in fifth and five points behind fourth-place Aston Villa.

(Image: Ash Donelon/Manchester United via Getty Images)

Join the Daily Star's WhatsApp for the sexiest headlines, showbiz gossip and lots more The Daily Star is now on WhatsApp and we want you to join us! Through the app, we'll send you the sassiest showbiz stories, some naught headline and a seismic smattering of aliens...along with the latest breaking news of course. To join our community, all you have to do to join is click on this link, select 'Join Chat' and you're in! No one will be able to see who has sign up and no one can send messages except for the Daily Star team. We also treat our community members to competitions, special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don’t like our community, you can check out any time you like. To leave our community click on the name at the top of your screen and choose Exit group. If you’re curious, you can read our Privacy Notice. CLICK HERE TO JOIN

Barcelona have also been linked with Kimmich in recent months, as have bitter rivals and last season's Treble champions, Manchester City. And after a recent downward spiral in results at the Allianz, a parting of the ways this summer could be all the more plausible.