Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

A barber has hit out at police claims that cheap haircuts could point towards illegal activities behind the scenes.

Detective Superintendent Charlotte Tucker says the surprise bargains in the various hairdressers on the high street are a "red flag". But barbers working at salons say police are wrong, and they merely wish to offer good prices to customers.

An increase in barbers on high streets across the country saw the police chief claim stores which can afford cuts for a couple quid could be fronts for criminal activity.

But Barber Arias Mahoudi, who works at Lads Barbers, hit back at D.I. Tucker, saying it is a matter of staying competitive and offering good service which drives their businesses.

READ MORE: 'Mafia-like' organisations flooding Europe with cocaine target unlikely city for war

Click here for the latest weird and wild updates on high street horrors.

(Image: Google Maps)

Lads Barbers claims to offer the "cheapest" cut in London at £14, and Arias insists the reasonable prices are to compete against trendy cuts which can cost up to £100 elsewhere. He said: "I don't want to compete I just want to do my work and that is it.

"We do not want to charge a lot of money because this is not a rich place. I prefer charging less and getting more customers. When our customers come in, they complain about how steep the prices are around here. You have still got to give a good service. The customers are happy with it. We do a similar service to everyone else here and we charge less."

Abdullah Mahmoudi of Joe's Barbers says other businesses in the area are struggling to keep up with discount prices, and that some salons are "stealing all of our customers," the Daily Mail reported.

He said: "Before we used to have customers queuing and all times and now it is empty in here. We can't afford to match the prices that they do." According to data from Statista, the average price of a haircut and beard trim is £19.

(Image: Getty Images/Image Source)

Det Supt Tucker, of Wiltshire Police, added: "If something is really cheap, like a £10 haircut in London, then it can be a red flag that workers may be being underpaid, or paid nothing at all. Everybody likes a bargain. But if something feels too good to be true, it probably is."

Arias has since called for council intervention on the rise in cheap barber shops, saying: "I am not saying that all of them are dodgy, but the council should limit it. There is nothing that I can do: the problem is the council. They shouldn't be letting them open."

Fellow barber Yusuf at Golden Blade added: "'£10 is definitely dodgy. At those prices people don't expect service they just want to get in and out. Former Metropolitan Police officer Ali Hassan Ali said: "Right across High Streets we have seen a boom in barbers opening up since the pandemic.

"While in some cases the shops will be involved in legitimate business, from my own experience, there is strong reason to believe a large number, particularly those owned by Albanians, Turks and Kurds, have links to organised crime. This can be people-smuggling and in some cases drugs."

For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.