Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Dancing on Ice star Vanessa Bauer has been linked to a number of her co-stars.

The German-born star, 27, made her debut on the ITV show in 2018 and went on to win the show with Jake Quickenden the same year. On the current series, Vanessa is partnered with Made in Chelsea star Miles Nazaire.

Their sizzling chemistry hasn't gone unnoticed by viewers as rumours that the pair were more than friends quickly surfaced. But this isn't the first time this has happened.

READ MORE: Dancing On Ice turns tense as Phillip Schofield tells Holly Willoughby 'shut your face'

Over the last six years, Vanessa has been rumoured to have had romances with various other celeb partners. Here, Daily Star has taken a look at the stunning skater's dating history.

Miles Nazaire

(Image: Kieron McCarron/ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

The pair recently finally broke their silence on the romance rumours when they appeared on ITV's Lorraine. Miles said: "For Vanessa and I we get it, of course there will be speculations of a romance.

"It's nice but I also want to show how much work we are putting into this and we don’t want it to be taken away because they are saying "Oh it’s a new couple. What’s she been teaching me is every routine has as a story,' he gushed, and added: 'I understand why the public are going "Is there something?"'

Vanessa added: "You need to have that bond in order to create routines like that. So I always said from the very beginning: just remember this is tough, you know. Dancing On Ice is a lot of pressure, but keep having fun. We are together everyday hours and hours, and we have such an amazing friendship.'

Dan Underwood

(Image: Instagram/ @vanessabauer_skates)

The professional skater went public with her boyfriend and businessman Dan Underwood at the premiere for The Creator at the Science Museum last year. Vanessa shared some snaps on Instagram with the co-founder of social media marketing company YRDS for sports cars.

She captioned the post: "Thank you for having me. I really want to congratulate the incredible and most diverse cast I’ve seen in an American Sci-Fi plus the crew for this genius production. Beautifully captured and so thought provoking, I am literally still thinking about it! A lovely night in the museum. If only my hair behaved in these pictures."

Joey Essex

(Image: joeyessex/Instagram)

Loveable Joey is used to spotlight having appeared in reality TV favourtie The Only Way is Essex. But the star took a leap of faith when he decided to lace up his skating boots and try his hand on Dancing On Ice.

Lucky for him, his glamorous pro partner was the lovely Vanessa Bauer and the pair have since reportedly found romance together. Not surprisingly, Joey, 32, admits he is ­struggling to keep his hands to himself as the pair spend hours training for their routines.

“I’m truly blessed to be paired with Vanessa, I was very happy,” Joey said with a smile ahead of the series. He added to The Sun: “You’re close and you are touching each other’s legs . . . and everywhere else. You are very intimate and it can happen.

(Image: vanessabauer_skates/Instagram)

“Honestly I don’t know how people do this show when they’re married — it would be a disaster. People were saying to me, like, ‘If I was married . . . God!’ Lucky I ain’t got a ring on my finger, eh?”

Since being paired together in November, Joey and Vanessa, 26, have become almost inseparable. As well as spending time at Joey’s Essex home, just this week he romanced Vanessa over a traditional, East End pie and mash lunch.

The reality TV veteran also took her as his date to Towie pal James Argent’s birthday bash last month. Joey said: “She’s a lovely girl, she’s beautiful inside and out, and we do really get on well. You know, it’s nice to wake up in the morning and know that I’m going to go meet Vanessa.

Jake Quickenden rumours

(Image: Matt Frost/ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

In 2018, Vanessa Bauer sparked romance rumours during her first ever stint on the series after she was partnered up with singer and footballer Jake Quickenden. The pair skated to victory after some impressive performances together, with many spotting the chemistry between the pair.

Shortly after the couple snagged the trophy, Jake and his girlfriend Danielle Fogarty split, with the singer insisting it had nothing to do with the show. Jake was thought to be hit by the “curse” that sees relationships break down after celebs fall for their skating partners.

(Image: Instagram)

Denying he was a victim of the curse, Jake told the MailOnline: “I think everyone goes through relationship troubles, it happens when people are away from home, they break down every day but when it is seen in the public eye there’s always something sinister to it. I don’t believe in curses, I think it only happens if you go in with an open mind of falling in love with your partner, but I just wanted to win.”

Wes Nelson claims

(Image: Instagram/vanessabauer_skates)

After meeting the Love Island hunk on the ITV show, Vanessa and Wes Nelson were at the centre of romance rumours. Although the reports were never confirmed, the two both broke off long-term relationships at the same which only added fuel to the fire.

Vanessa fuelled the fire when she called time on her long-term relationship with boyfriend Louis Nathaniel at the beginning of the series, followed shortly by Wes who broke things off with Love Island’s Megan Barton-Hanson just a few weeks later.

(Image: Instagram/vanessabauer_skates)

Vanessa was later slammed by Megan online for failing to invite her to any training or even look her in the eye when meeting. The reality star took to Instagram stories to publicly say: “@vanessabauer_skates love that you announce your breakup with your boyfriend on the night of your 1st performance with my boyfriend.

“You’ve never reached out to me once or invited me to watch you train” she continues, “it pained you to introduce yourself to me last night you didn’t even look me in the eye LOL.

"Hope the tactical breakup got you the headlines you wanted babe @wes.nelson” Vanessa announced the split from long term boyfriend Louis Nathaniel after rumours that he’d become concerned over her closeness with Wes, though the pair never publicly announced a romance.

Rory McCall

(Image: Vanessa Bauer/Instagram)

Vanessa and personal trainer Rory first went official with their relationship in 2019 - months after her split from ex-boyfriend Louis Nathaniel. The figure skater shared a slew of bikini-clad snaps with the shirtless hunk as they enjoyed an idyllic boat ride around Paros Island in Greece.

The German beauty found love with Rory during her a three-month trip to Bali and Thailand where she trained to become a yoga instructor. But after a two year on-again-off-again romance, the pair finally split for good.

(Image: Dave Benett/Getty Images for BT)

The break up was said to be a mutual decision and that there are no hard feelings between them. One pal told The Sun: “Vanessa has told people she is no longer dating Rory.

“It seems they ended things on good terms and it was mutual. They only wish each other well.”

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.