Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

The winner of Love Island All Stars has been ‘revealed’ - days before the final.

The ITV show kicked off last month and has seen a slew of past contestants return in a bid to find love for the second time. The likes of Liberty Poole, Molly Smith, Callum Jones and Mitch Taylor all came back to the famous villa.

The remaining All Stars couples on the show are Georgia Harrison and Anton Danyluk, Molly Smith and Tom Clare, Georgia Steel and Toby Aromolaran. As well as Callum Jones and Jess Gale, Arabella Chi and Adam Maxted and Sophie Piper and Joshua Ritchie.

READ MORE: Rochelle Humes fumes 'how dare you' at Love Island star sister's beau as she shares thoughts

READ MORE: Want more showbiz? Daily Star has just the thing for you!

However, there can be only one couple that is crowned the champ. And during Monday’s live final (February 19) hosted by Maya Jama - fans will get to see who is the lucky winning couple.

(Image: ITV)

But now, a day before the epic final, AI has ‘revealed’ which couple could win. Daily Star has quizzed one of the world’s most popular artificially intelligent “creative” tools, Gemini, to see which couple could take home the crown.

The program responded that Tom Clare and Molly Smith are the “frontrunners” to win. Molly joined the show alongside ex Calum - and the public have been longing that the pair would rekindle things and get back together.

(Image: ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

But according to AI, Molly could stick with Tom and become the champs. It explained: “Currently, oddsmakers and many fans favor this couple.

“Their established connection, consistent popularity, and strong showing in the Couple of Sorts game point towards a potential win. However, some viewers question their authenticity and worry the romance might fizzle under pressure.”

(Image: ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

Another couple that is likely to take home the crown is Callum Jones and Jess Gale. The system said: “Their unexpected connection has gained support, especially with Callum's previous popularity.

“Some fans even see a stronger emotional foundation compared to Tom and Molly. However, they haven't been together as long, and their journey might appear less "developed" to some viewers.”

(Image: ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

Have you joined Threads? Follow Daily Star to keep up to date on all things showbiz here.

AI tool Gemini also claims Georgia Harrison & Anton Danyluk could be a “dark horse.” It said: "This pair started off rocky but seem to be growing stronger. While not the favorite, they could be a dark horse in the competition.” The system also claimed: “Since initial doubts, Anton has won back some viewers with his dedication to Georgia and heartfelt speeches.”

For more of the latest showbiz and TV news from the Daily Star, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters here.