Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

For the latest from the pitch sign up for our football newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

For the latest from the pitch sign up for our football newsletter

A young Real Madrid star was 'headbutted' after their match at the weekend.

Iker Bravo, a forward for Los Blancos Juvenil A, was the victim of the attack following their 4-2 victory against Rayo Majadahonda on Sunday (February 18). The incident occurred as the 19-year-old was heading back to the team bus at La Oliva.

According to Spanish outlet Relevo, Bravo had been verbally abused during the game and was called a 'clown' as he greeted someone he knew. A group of fans waited for him, with one person approaching Bravo to deliver the headbutt.

READ MORE: David Beckham infuriates viewers with one word as football icon appears at BAFTAs

READ MORE: Kylian Mbappe 'signs Real Madrid contract' – and he'll still be top earner with pay cut

This article contains affiliate links, we will receive a commission on any sales we generate from it. Learn more Watch the Champions League here Catch every minute of the Champions League 2023/2024 TNT is the only place you can watch all the action from the Champions League this year. You can see every game from the group stage right through to the final as Manchester City look to defend their crown as the newest kings of the World's biggest and best football tournament. £29.99 a month TNT Sports Watch it here

Real Madrid staff stepped in at this point, and luckily, the Mirror report Bravo did not suffer any serious injuries. It's reported that the young player often becomes a target for insults during away games.

The Spanish side won their away game thanks to two goals from Hugo de Llanos and one each from Mesonero and Paulo Iago. They are currently second in their division after winning nine matches in a row.

Bravo began his youth career with Espluguenc before moving to Barcelona and then Bayer Leverkusen in 2021. Upon his move, sporting director Simon Rolfes described him as a "really big talent".

(Image: Getty Images) (Image: Instagram/ikbravo9)

The young Catalan footballer became Leverkusen's youngest-ever player when he debuted at 16 during the DFB Cup defeat against Karlsruher SC. He only played twice for the German team's first squad.

After just one season, Bravo returned to Spain as Real Madrid secured the striker on loan with an option to make the move permanent. The Barcelona youth product reportedly commanded a €6million (£5.1m) fee as Carlo Ancelotti's team beat Atletico Madrid to his signature.

Bravo spent his first season with the club playing for Castilla and made 22 appearances in Primera Federacion Group 1 last term but has spent more time with Juvenil A this term. The young forward has been productive in the UEFA Youth League across his two seasons in Madrid, scoring six goals in 10 matches while providing five assists.