Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Share your email to get soaps interviews, spoilers from the Star

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Share your email to get soaps interviews, spoilers from the Star

Emmerdale's Dawn could be in danger as Ella's hidden motives have been "exposed".

Ella, played by Coronation Street star Paula Lane, arrived in the village in January and struck up a friendship with Mandy Dingle (Lisa Riley). After getting fired, Ella landed herself a job as a receptionist at the GP surgery.

The newcomer also befriended Dawn Taylor (Olivia Bromley), defending her after Bear Wolf (Joshua Richards) made comments about her breastfeeding in The Woolpack. During Thursday's episode (February 15) of the ITV soap, Ella discovered more about the village's dark past.

READ MORE: Emmerdale issues health update on Zak Dingle after Steve Halliwell's death

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

With Tom (James Chase) and Belle's (Eden Taylor-Draper) wedding day the talk of the village, Dawn and Billy Fletcher (Jay Kontzle) were cast back to their own big day. They brought up their past with murderer Meena Jutla (Paige Sandhu), recalling how she held them hostage on their wedding day.

Later, keen to know more about Manpreet's (Rebecca Sarker) "crazy sister," Ella brought up the topic of Meena in the surgery. She was immediately shut down by Liam Cavanagh (Jonny McPherson), unaware that Meena murdered his daughter.

Ella quipped: "I’m starting to think this place is a bit nuts." Fans are certain there is more than meets the eye to the newcomer, speculating she has a link to the serial killer.

One wrote: "My prediction is that Ella is the former cellmate of Dame Meena Jutla and that’s how Dame Meena will return." A second agreed: "Wouldn't be surprised if Ella knows Meena."

Others have predicted that an affair could begin between Ella and Billy. Writing on X, formerly Twitter, one wrote: "Please don’t tell me Ella and Billy will go on to have an affair #Emmerdale."

A second agreed: "Ella will be in bed with billy next week #Emmerdale." Sharing their predictions, another declared: "New character Ella will have an affair with Billy."

Meanwhile, a fourth echoed: "I am getting a single white female vibe from Ella. She seems very interested in Dawn life. I think Ella has ulterior motives and won't be surprised if she steals Dawn baby. Ella probably try to sleep with Billy too. I don't think she is nice just an act."

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.