Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Love Island: All Stars is set to have a live event just before the final, with a former star returning to the show.

TikTok is heading to South Africa to host an exclusive livestream with the final contestants to celebrate the much-awaited finale.

Indiyah Polack, a Love Island legend, will be hosting the event at 8:30pm on Monday (February 19). She'll be chatting with the finalists in a behind-the-scenes exclusive TikTok LIVE on the official @loveisland account.

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

READ MORE: Love Island All Stars winners 'exposed' before final - but fans notice major problem

Fans can tune in to get all the juicy gossip from the firepit, find out who approached who for a chat first, which eggs are in which basket, and who's really there for love. The first ever season of All Stars has been full of a lot of drama and everything will come to an end tonight.

(Image: Jonathan Hordle/REX/Shutterstock)

The TikTok event is part of the collaboration with Love Island which started in 2020. Last week, Wes Nelson returned to the villa, but this time as a music artist, debuting his latest single 'Abracadabra'. The song, a team-up with UK Garage legend Craig David, was launched through SoundOn, TikTok's comprehensive platform for music marketing and distribution.

Wes and Craig were special guests at the annual pool party for contestants, where they rocked their DJ performance, bringing fun and magic to the show.

'Abracadabra' is now available on SoundOn and is rapidly gaining popularity on TikTok, with already 25.2k video creations. The song has hit #1 on the Capital Charts and earned Wes his first ever Top 40 hit on the UK Official Charts, racking up 52 million video views.

(Image: ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

Indiyah's return to the villa comes after the islanders are surprised with another pool party as Ella Henderson joins the show to mark their success in the show.

As their final day in the villa comes to a close the islanders will all be sent to their hotel before coming back into the villa to find out who the public has voted as their winners.

Love Island: All Stars will crown its first winner and the pair will be given a prize fund of £50k to split before trying to navigate their romance on the outside.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.