Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Celebs Go Dating expert Anna Williamson explained how Georgia Harrison is “clearly unsure” about her relationship with Anton Danyluk as the pair prepare for the Love Island final.

Over the past five weeks, ITV fans have watched the pair share their ups and downs in the villa. During their time on the show, the documentary maker has been hot and cold with the Scottish hunk before he took the plunge to ask her to be his girlfriend.

Since then, the duo earned themselves a night in the hideaway after a romantic breakfast out on the terrace. But last week the blonde bombshell was left in floods of tears after a heated game around the firepit took a turn for the worse.

READ MORE: Celebs Go Dating expert shares secret to long-lasting Love Island romances outside villa

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star TV stories

Fans watched the 29-year-old gather her fellow Islanders on the sofa where she asked them all for their opinion on their relationship after hearing whispers around the villa. Now, the E4 dating guru has shared her thoughts on the messy debate hours before the live final.

(Image: Cadbury Creme Egg)

As the TV star teams up with Cadbury to solve the UK’s dating dilemmas using a Creme Egg, the mum-of-two has shared her thoughts on their romance so far. Speaking exclusively to Daily Star, she explained that although she hasn’t caught up on the latest episode, she is concerned for the couple on the show.

She told us: “I think friends can be a very useful sounding board if you’re unsure about something. But there’s also a huge caveat with that, that a relationship is intensely personal between two people, and nobody will ever truly know what is going on.

“I think if you are in a position where you are clearly that unsure that you are seeking counsel from you friends, then you need to recognise how good a friend are they? If your friends are going to be honest from their perspective.”

(Image: ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

Anna went on to add that much of the advice her fellow co-stars gave her should be taken with a “pinch of salt” especially when the adjust to life outside the villa. The relationship expert went on: “I think if it’s your deepest most trusted friends who are your ride or die, then listen to you friends and take their advice on board.

“But I think it’s important to also take advice with a pinch of salt and just use is as counsel to either take it or leave it as you see fit. Essentially, go with your gut.

“The fact that Georgia has asked for people’s opinions to me tells me that her gut is telling her this isn’t right. And she should have that confidence to trust in her gut and make that decision elsewhere and not seek the validation that I think perhaps she’s already got.”

(Image: ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

Speaking about her campaign with Cadburys, she stressed the importance of partner's eating habits. She explained: "From my work matchmaking famous faces, I love any tool that people can use to better connect with each other and work out if they are soulmates.

"I have seen far too many relationships crack under pressure thanks to someone's eating habits, so if I can help just one person avoid a dating catastrophe or find their perfect partner, I would have done my job right!"

Cadbury Creme Eggs are available in retailers nationwide for 75p (40g). Retailers are free to set their own pricing.

Love Island: All Stars final airs on Monday (February 19) from 9pm on ITV2 or catch up on ITVX.