Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Nobody likes to hear the word cancer.

Perhaps our automatic fear of the word is what causes so many of us not to look out for symptoms. But, it turns out, record numbers of men say they have looked into their own potential health issues since King Charles’s shock cancer news, according to new research commissioned in the days following the announcement.

Over a quarter (28%) of men say their concerns about cancer have drastically risen since the bombshell announcement. As well as this, nearly one in two men (49%) have confessed they are unsure of how to check their bodies to spot cancer signs, and a staggering three in 10 (30%) admit they do not regularly check their body for changes and abnormalities.

READ MORE: People who pick their nose risk developing Alzheimer's disease, study shows

Read all the latest lifestyle news by the team at Daily Star

The research, which was conducted by private medical group Pall Mall Medical, revealed a further 19% confessed they have never checked their body for changes and abnormalities in their entire lives. When it comes to routine prostate cancer screenings, a third of men aged over 55 (38%) admit to not being screened in over a year.

The King’s diagnosis points out the significant impact of high-profile health disclosures on public awareness and the immediate response of individuals to prioritise their well-being.

There are now 19.3 million new cases of cancer each year, but 30% to 50% of all cancers are preventable. The research shows that over half of men (55%) revealed they wished they were more knowledgeable about the potential cancer signs to look out for, and a further half of men (56%) said they would attend a screening earlier if offered.

(Image: Getty Images)

The King’s cancer was discovered as doctors treated the 75-year-old monarch for an enlarged prostate, leading to a significant increase of interest in understanding potential health risks and preventative measures.

"Our data clearly indicates a notable shift in men's attitudes towards their health since King Charles's cancer news.” said Dr Mariyam Malik from Pall Mall Medical.

“This level of engagement and proactive research is unprecedented and highlights the powerful influence that high-profile health disclosures can have on public health consciousness."

Delving into various aspects of men’s health concerns, ranging from cancer awareness to general well-being, the survey which quizzed 2,000 people pinpointed a desire for increased information on early detection, prevention and healthy lifestyle choices.

Dr Malik added: "These findings suggest that the King's announcement acted as a wake-up call for men to become more informed and proactive in managing their health. However, men shouldn’t wait for alarming news to take action.

"Early detection saves lives, and it is crucial for everyone to take a moment to check themselves for unusual changes in the body."

Men are encouraged to seek medical attention upon detecting any abnormalities and to prioritise regular screenings in the protection against cancer and potential silent symptoms.

Pall Mall Medical provide a number of health checks and simple, non-invasive cancer checks including PSA blood test for prostate cancer, CA125 blood test for ovarian cancer and a Colo Alert test for bowel cancer. Prices start from £133.

For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.