Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

The World Health Organisation (WHO) has issued a warning after two people died from a rare form of coronavirus caught only by touching a camel . . . or drinking its milk.

Middle East Respiratory Syndrome – also known around the world as MERS – has taken two victims in Saudi Arabia in recent months, with two further cases also confirmed.

After investigations took place locally, it emerged that one of those who caught it was a camel owner, while another was confirmed to have had indirect contact with one of the animals through their camel-owning family.

READ MORE: Missing MH370 'could be found within 10 days' as expert finds new search area

Click for more of the latest news from the Daily Star.

(Image: James Maloney/Lancs Live)

The WHO explained: "Humans are infected with MERS-CoV from direct or indirect contact with dromedary camels, which are the natural host and zoonotic source of the virus. MERS-CoV has demonstrated the ability to transmit between humans. So far, non-sustained human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts and in health care settings. Outside of health care settings there has been limited human-to-human transmission to date.”

The virus was first detected in Saudi Arabia in 2012,with around 2,200 cases found since then. Overall, 858 deaths have also ben reported, with MERS cases also detected in 27 other countries. Of the 2,609 MERS cases and 939 deaths reported globally, 84% and 91%, respectively, have been reported from KSA, including these newly reported cases and deaths.

(Image: Getty Images)

The UK's Health and Security Agency update its guidance over the virus in June, 2023, and confirmed that the is of infection to the UK remains “very low”. However, a spokesman said: ”All travellers to the Middle East are advised to avoid contact with camels as much as possible.

“Travellers are advised to avoid raw camel milk and/or camel products from the Middle East.”

It is thought that around 35% of people who contract MERS do die from the virus. According to the NHS, the symptoms for MERS – which has no specific treatment or vaccine – are fever, cough, difficulty breathing, diarrhoea and vomiting.

For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.