Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Ex-WWE wrestler Mandy Rose has revealed one devoted fan once spent a staggering figure on her raunchy content.

Mandy was sacked from the wrestling organisation back in 2022 after WWE officials learnt about her racy side hustle and were allegedly left "unhappy" about the content she was sharing on her private platforms. Despite losing her wrestling career, it appears the former NXT women’s champion hasn't been struggling financially.

The 33-year-old, whose real name is Amanda Rose Saccomanno, claims the money she's made by selling adult content since getting fired has been "life-changing". Speaking on the Power Alphas podcast recently, which is hosted by her fiancé Tino Sabbatelli, Mandy revealed one fan even forked out a huge sum just to get a look at her exclusive content on FanTime, an OnlyFans-style subscription platform.

READ MORE: Tragic downfall of 'cursed' WWE family – from triple suicide to fighting with one foot

Discover the latest news from the US.

"I've had one person, I won't say any names. One person, and this is on FanTime, spent $55,000 on me. One person. $55,000," she said.

(Image: mandysacs/Instagram)

The raunchy content creator was left stunned by the fan's spending. She added: "So I'm like 'Wow, what does he do for a living that he's able to spend this kind of money on one person?' $55,000.

"And it wasn't even [over a long period.] It was definitely over a little time period. But it was definitely, yeah. Wild. So thank you! It is kind of crazy."

(Image: mandysacs/Instagram)

Tino was even happy to hear about his future wife's biggest fan. "Whatever his name is, thank you," he said.

Mandy reportedly earned more than $1million during her first month on FanTime but it's not the only platform she's sold her X-rated content on. Back in September she also launched an OnlyFans account which she later revealed has granted her "financial freedom".

(Image: mandysacs/Instagram)

She told TMZ: “It's been kind of life-changing, I must say...I'm really blessed, but I will say that I have a lot of financial freedom right now which is really amazing." She added: “That's why I'm so grateful that I'm able to help my family right now and kind of rejuvenate their business they got going on, and just continue with my future. So, it's been pretty lucrative, not gonna lie."