Former McFly star Tom Fletcher has finally spoken up after his bandmate Danny Jones was announced the winner of The Masked Singer.

The popular ITV show that kicked off earlier this year crowned Piranha, believed to be former McFly member Danny Jones, 37, as the winner in yesterday's final round. Other masked singers who entertained the audience and judges Davina McCall, Jonathan Ross, Rita Ora, Mo Gilligan, and guest Rob Brydon were Cricket and Bigfoot.

Piranha was revealed to be Danny after trumping the other contestants and upon the public's loud chants of "take it off". Tom, 38, and a long-serving McFly bandmate since 2003, shared a touching video of him and his three kids with wife Giovanna Fletcher getting excited over The Masked Singer UK.

READ MORE: Click for more brilliant Daily Star showbiz stories

READ MORE:The Masked Singer crown Piranha as 2024 champ as star admits he's been 'held back'

In the video, Tom chants "Take it off" along with his young ones while they eagerly wait for Piranha's true identity to be revealed.

(Image: ITV1)

When Piranha was disclosed to be Danny, they all cheered, showing their happiness and support, while Tom, in a fit of laughter, shouted: "Go on Mush!". He captioned the moment on Instagram as: "YES MUSH!!!!! @dannyjonesofficial @maskedsingeruk." McFly also includes members Dougie Poynter and Harry Judd.

Later on, Tom posted another video, declaring: "I knew it! All GDs knew it too. We've known for 21 years and now everyone else does too - @dannyjonesofficial AKA Piranha @maskedsingeruk has one of THE BEST voices of all time."

(Image: Dave Benett/Getty Images)

In the video, Tom exclaimed: "Spoiler alert if you haven't seen The Masked Singer yet, I'm about to talk about it, here's your warning! Danny 'Piranha' Jones, wow, congratulations mate. You gave some of the best vocals I've ever heard ever! They were unreal. I'm sure all McFly fans around the country have been screaming at their TVs for the last few weeks like my kids have because we, of course, know you can sing like that."

"We've been hearing you sing like that for the last 21 years but what has been amazing is seeing how many people heard this incredible voice come from that Piranha and would never have guessed it was that guy from McFly. I think it just goes to show how underrated Danny has been for the last 20-odd years!"

(Image: Dave Benett/Getty Images for Hug)

"It's taken him to stand on stage with a Piranha mask on to make people take a step back and realise Danny Jones, from McFly, has one of the all time greatest voices. God tier, up there, with the very best. How lucky are we that we have the voice of Danny Jones in our band. Congratulations, Danny, it's been amazing and I hope you get to keep the mask!"

After his big win on Saturday night, Danny shared: "I've had the most amazing time, I can escape behind here and just be Piranha and sing these songs. I've learnt so much, I'm able to sing higher now just from being on this show. I am so happy, thank you!"

Talking about his McFly bandmates' reaction when finding out, he joked: "I think that the boys [in McFy] will be very surprised. I am my own worst enemy, so I'm always like, 'That wasn't very good', so they always build me up. They'll guess me straight away."

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.