Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get all the latest gossip from the villa straight to your inbox with our Love Island newsletter

Love Island viewers were left "cringing" after host Maya Jama's "fanny" remark.

The ITV presenter chatted to booted-out couple Arabella Chi and Adam Maxted after they were dumped by their former co-stars. During their exit interview, Arabella revealed she fell for guys on the show due to their sense of humour.

Maya then replied to her by saying: "Well, funny gets fanny!" Viewers at home were gobsmacked she said it on air as the host usually keeps it pretty professional.

READ MORE: Rochelle Humes fumes 'how dare you' at Love Island star sister's beau as she shares thoughts

READ MORE: Want more showbiz? Daily Star has just the thing for you!

One wrote on social media platform X: "Did Maya Jama just say funny gets fanny #loveisland" A second added: "Funny gets Fanny MISS MAYA JAMA I CANT #LoveIslandAllStars #loveisland"

(Image: ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

While a third penned: "I did not expect Maya Jama to say “Funny gets Fanny” whilst interviewing them #LoveIsland" A fourth posted: "Did Maya Jama just say “funny gets fanny” on national television #LoveIsland" Another shared: "absolutely cringing at maya jama saying funny gets fanny on national tv #LoveIsland"

Arabella and Adam were kicked out after their All Stars chose to vote them out. On Sunday night, the cast of the show argued their place after each vote but it wasn't enough for the pair.

The new couple were neck and neck with Georgia and Anton but they lost their battle to stay. This means that they narrowly missed making the ITV final.

(Image: ITV/REX/Shutterstock)

Fans commented on the dumping online, with one writing: "Surely if everyone is saying the same thing about Arabella and Adam then it’s not an “excuse” lol canny stand her #LoveIsland" A second added: "Arabella and Adam aren’t lasting till the reunion please lord #LoveIsland"

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter.