Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Daily Star TV newsletter for the biggest TV news

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Daily Star TV newsletter for the biggest TV news

TV presenter Lorraine Kelly has confessed that her first love was pointy-eared Star Trek character Spock - and that she’d have loved to settle down with him.

The 64-year-old TV star, who hosts breakfast show Lorraine on ITV, said her first crush was the Vulcan alien, played by Leonard Nimoy.

The Glasgow-born star said she reckoned she could ‘bring out the human side’ of Spock, who is half human, half Vulcan.

READ MORE: Inside Lorraine Kelly's stunning home – from huge shower to sprawling garden

READ MORE: Join the Daily Star Soaps WhatsApp for all the latest spoilers and exclusives

Lorraine said: “Mr Spock (was my) first crush. I love him.

“Being half-Vulcan, half-human, he was always trying to suppress his human side, but I’d have brought it out, and we’d have lived happily ever after.”

(Image: CBS via Getty Images)

Lorraine - who has been married to Steve Smith since 1992 - has previously revealed how she had loved Star Trek as a kid, saying: “I’ve loved Star Trek since I was a child in the 60s.”

She said Steve even bought her a Spock toy - which is one of her favourite possessions.

She said: “Steve bought me a Spock doll many years ago and it’s one of my most treasured possessions.”

Lorraine recently took aim at a social media account which criticizing how often she hosts her own ITV show.

The question of Lorraine hosting her own show has sparked debate online, as many take the humorous approach and have a laugh about where Kelly has gone off to. However, when the tracking account was brought up, Lorraine had some less-than-pleasant words for the conversations.

Bringing up the account, Woman's Hour Gemma Cairney said: "You know there's this satire account set up on X, that is tracking your appearance on the show. It's had 10,000 followers!"

Reacting to the news, Lorraine addressed the account: "I know! The amount of space that I occupy in people's minds is bizarre.

For more of the latest showbiz and TV news from the Daily Star, make sure you sign up for one of our newsletters here.