Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Sign up for the Hot Topics newsletter for hot style and sex tips

A self-proclaimed cougar revealed the benefits of dating an older woman, claiming younger men love her.

After being married for 24 years, KarenLee Poter suddenly found herself single in her 40s following the tragic death of her husband. While she's said she'd never get re-married, the now 65-year-old still jumped back into the dating world and found herself hitting it off with men considerably younger than her.

Now the author, who co-hosts a podcast titled Sex Talk With My Mom, shares all sorts of content about sex and relationships. Not only does KarenLee prefer dating younger men, but she believes older women make better partners too.

READ MORE: 'I've quit dating but horny blokes keep begging me to take their virginity and marry them'

For more real life stories, click here.

(Image: karenleepoter/Instagram)

Taking to TikTok, KarenLee listed five reasons why men should go after a cougar like her. She turned the camera towards her face in the clip as she pointed to each of the reasons, which she displayed in text boxes.

"No games, confidence, experienced in bed and life, adventurous, financially independent," she wrote. Her fans agreed, one wrote: "Love cougars".

(Image: karenleepoter/Instagram)

Another added: "Dating one now. I’m 52 she 67, bedroom play is awesome." In another video, KarenLee was joined by her "fellow cougar" friend Nancy Atkinson as they went into more detail about what younger men can get from dating older women.

She said: "We're proud to be over 60 and you know what we've found? What have we found out about younger guys?" Nancy responded: "That they like older women."

"That's damn straight," Karen said, adding: "And why do they like older women?" Nancy explained: "Because older women have a security and a confidence in them that younger women don't have yet."

She also revealed older women offer "no games relationships". KarenLee questioned: "And how about teaching them new things?"

"They like that," Nancy said. "Why do you think older women are qualified to teach new things," KarenLee added.

(Image: karenleepoter/Instagram)

"Because they've experienced a lot, they have the knowledge," Nancy said as both women revealed they were "speaking from experience." It was enough to convince KarenLee's randy followers who took to the comment section to beg the women to give them a chance.

"My type of babes very nice," one wrote. A second commented: "Love to be the younger man." A third said: "Where you been all my life." Another added: "Yes be proud beautiful ladies."