Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

American Idol bosses are reportedly lining up Miley Cyrus to to replace outgoing judge Katy Perry - but have raised concerns over her risqué outfits.

Earlier this week Katy revealed she will stand down from the ABC show later this year after seven years on the show's panel alongside Lionel Richie and Luke Bryan. The 39-year-old unexpectedly announced the news during an interview on US chat show Jimmy Kimmel Live.

Her decision came following claims last year she felt she had been "thrown under the bus" by Idol producers who wanted her to be the "nasty" judge of the competition. Whilst Jennifer Lopez has also been touted as a possible replacement, 31-year-old Miley would likely attract a younger audience.

READ MORE: Katy Perry quits American Idol after producers 'threw her under the bus' with edit

READ MORE: Miley Cyrus breaks silence on 'going commando' at Grammys and reveals what she really wore

However, some executives on the show feel the Wrecking Ball singer would be too much of a risk for what is deemed a family-friendly production.

(Image: FilmMagic)

Just last week Miley put on a jaw-dropping display at the Grammy Awards as she rocked a chainmail dress made out of thousands of gold safety pins, before changing into a plunging jumpsuit and a dress slit all the way to her thigh. While accepting the gong for Record of the Year she joked during her acceptance speech that she had "forgotten" to wear underwear.

She later took to X (formerly Twitter), however, to admit that it was all just a joke and she was actually wearing matching custom Gucci panties.

(Image: ABC via Getty Images)

An Idol source told the US Sun on Friday of the show's concerns: "Names like Jennifer Lopez and Shania Twain are in the frame because they have worked on the show before and are 'safe' faces, but there is a push for Miley. She is a younger star with an audience that has grown up with her as Hannah Montana and is a celebrated pop star in her own right.

"Some senior figures at ABC have concerns about the risqué and open nature of Miley saying or doing something which is not necessarily family-friendly."

(Image: FilmMagic)

Have you joined Threads? Follow Daily Star to keep up to date on all things showbiz here.

Miley's younger sister Noah, meanwhile, went a step or two further on Thursday as she exposed her naked body under a totally see through plastic body wrap. The 24-year-old singer risked getting slapped with an Instagram ban with a series of explicit snaps.

Noah showed off her bare boobs while trapped in the thin and transparent material from the brand Prototypes, which specialises in up-cycling and repurposed garments. The former child star asked people "forgive me" in her cheeky caption.

Want all the biggest Showbiz and TV news straight to your inbox? Sign up for our free Daily Star Showbiz newsletter