Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Phil Taylor is being urged by fans to cut short his ‘farewell tour’ in competition after a dismal final appearance at the Circus Tavern.

‌The ‘Power’ lifted 11 of his 16 world titles at the Purfleet nightclub, but his plan to turn 2024 into an extended goodbye on the oche suffered a nightmare start. Taylor was beaten 3-2 in the first round of the JenningsBet World Seniors Darts Championship by German unknown Manfred Bilderl on Friday night.

And his lowly 74.53 average was a pale shadow of the all-conquering champion who was almost unbeatable 20 years ago. Taylor, 63, is due to compete at next month’s World Seniors Champion of Champions tournament in Blackpool.

‌READ MORE: Luke Humphries hits back at trolls who call him 'worst world champion' after freak defeat

READ MORE: Michael van Gerwen says 'no one wants this' after 'unbelievably cr*p' Peter Wright match‌

‌But he was so upset with his performance against soft-tip specialist Bilderl that he left the Circus Tavern without comment. And some fans would prefer to see him step away from competitive darts now instead of turning his farewell tour into a long and painful goodbye.

‌One darts fan, Richard Oliver, wrote on X (formerly Twitter): “Have followed Phil Taylor for years and sorry to see it end like this… Just hope he decides enough is enough and enjoys his retirement.”

Should Phil Taylor keep on playing? Let us know in the comments section below

(Image: Getty Images) (Image: Chris Sargeant/ProSports/REX/Shutterstock)

‌And another, Robert Colcombe, posted” “That game was Phil Taylor in name only, not Taylor the darts player.”

Taylor remains a huge draw on the exhibition circuit, but his final World Championship appearance - on the stage where his sudden-death defeat by Raymond van Barneveld 17 years earlier was epic sporting drama - will be one he prefers to forget.