Kylian Mbappe has reportedly signed his Real Madrid contract - making him the club's highest paid player despite taking a pay cut.

The French superstar rocked the football world after it was reported that he told Paris Saint-Germain that he'll be leaving the club in the summer with the Spanish giants the mass favourites to acquire the 25-year-old.

Mbappe has long been linked with a move to Spain but it seems switch to the Santiago Bernabeu inches closer every passing day as Marca have reported that the France captain has already inked his deal with Madrid two weeks ago.

READ MORE:Erling Haaland's stance on Real Madrid transfer after Kylian Mbappe decision

READ MORE:Liverpool's Ibrahima Konate gives teasing answer when asked about Kylian Mbappe's future

Watch football, F1, golf, tennis, cricket and more Get all the sport you could ever ask for Sky Sports is bringing you 500 live football games to watch, as well access to Cricket, Golf, F1, Boxing, NFL, NBA and more across eight dedicated channels. Sky Sports is the only way to watch all the action this year. £22 a month Sky Get it here

The Spanish publication wrote that the Parisian is 'making a firm commitment' to Madrid despite having to take a pay cut, while the Daily Mail reported he'll still become the club's highest-paid player, ahead of Jude Bellingham and Vinicius Junior, who reportedly earn £10.3million per season.

While Madrid would acquire Mbappe on a free transfer if a deal gets completed, they'll reportedly pay a signing-on fee of around £85.5m while begin negotiations on the percentage of his image rights he retains. Marca claim that the Frenchman's entourage told PSG 'not to bother' enticing him to stay at the club.

Who will Paris Saint-Germain target to replace Kylian Mbappe? Give us your thoughts in the comments section below

(Image: Getty Images)

While there is a 12-month extension clause in his contract for the 2024-25 season, that extension could only be triggered by Mbappe himself - not the club - while the deadline for doing so was passed on July 31 last year.

The Frenchman is expected to earn between £12m and £17m a year in Madrid plus bonuses - which would spell a massive reduction in wages considering he earns a reported £22m a year from his lucrative deal with the reigning Ligue 1 champions.

(Image: Anadolu Agency via Getty Images)

Luke Littler darts fans can back 'The Nuke' in Premier League with his playing shirt Luke Littler fans can now buy the 17-year-old's playing shirt to support him as he continues to demonstrate his talent in the Premier League. The darts sensation was only 16 when he wowed Alexandra Palace at the World Darts Championship (WDC), despite a final loss to Luke Humphries. The Nuke will continue playing against seven of the best dart players in the world — Humphries, Michael van Gerwen, Gerwyn Price, Michael Smith, Nathan Aspinall, Rob Cross and Peter Wright — in a mini-tournament in a different city every Thursday until the final in May. BUY LUKE LITTLER'S SHIRT HERE

Despite the mass speculation over his future, PSG club president Nasser Al-Khelaifi insisted his want for Mbappe to remain with the club he's been with for the last seven years.

He told RMC: "Look, I'm not hiding anything. For sure I want Mbappe to stay. For me he is the best in the world and for me the best club for Kylian is Paris."