Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Budding explorers or spelunkers chancing a trip to ancient Egypt's wonders may think twice about entering the lead walled tombs of old pharaohs.

The Curse of the Pharaohs, a longstanding trouble of toxins within tombs which are released upon breaking into them, is not the only worry archaeologists should have when investigating the uncovered areas according to Google Bard.

Deep within the tombs could be all sorts of troubles including snakes, leftover viruses like herpes and parasitic horrors which could latch onto those brave enough to head into the tombs.

READ MORE: Inside twisted Brit cannibals who ate ancient Egyptian mummies to 'increase sex drive'

Click here for the latest news and updates on ancient Egypt.

(Image: EPA/Getty)

Speaking with Google's Bard AI, the Daily Star uncovered the harshest and most chilling of potential dangers as the artificial intelligence warned "all ancient Egyptian tombs are dangerous and pose potential risks."

Detailing bugs and grim animals within, Bard warned "venomous creatures" like snakes and scorpions could be living inside the tombs and may deliver a "serious or even fatal" bite. Mites and beetles may have already damaged the artefacts inside the tombs too.

Toxins not meant for human consumption could also have been released into the atmosphere – as was the case for the crack team uncovering the tomb of Tutankhamun.

(Image: AFP via Getty Images)

Bard AI added: "Used on walls and artefacts, these could contain substances like lead and mercury, which are toxic if inhaled or ingested. Food and drink placed with the deceased might contain mould or bacteria that have grown over time."

Those same mouldy foodstuffs could have been a festering ground of parasites, which could make their way into the bodies of those heading down into the depths of ancient Egypt's tomb structures. Bard warned the parasitic "roundworms and schistosomiasis" could survive deep underground.

Further trouble from fungal spores was also noted, with the "dormant" bacterias including "anthrax, tuberculosis and tetanus" all swirling in the closed-off tombs. Even STIs like "hepatitis B and herpes" could be lingering within.

For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.