Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email

A wildlife camera has snapped an eerie figure dubbed an "elemental", with glowing eyes protruding from the dark of a forest.

The haunting creature was picked up on by a camera set up in the woods, but not to capture horror beings of sinister variety. Cameras scattered in the woods were set up to pick up on deer tracks, but instead caught out this beast.

With glowing eyes and a hunched over appearance, the grim beast appears to have set off the movement tracker on the camera and offered up an unsettling selfie, which was posted to Facebook.

READ MORE: Bigfoot hunters should dress up as beast and head out with a 'giant net' to get lucky

Click here for the latest horrifying updates on ghostly encounters across the globe.

(Image: Getty Images/iStockphoto)

This image, uploaded to Facebook group Ghosts of London, had some users alleging the find was actually an elemental, not a ghost. Both serve the same purpose but the "elemental" seen here may have ties to the occult.

One user wrote: "That my friends is an elemental. A being comprised only of the energies of the earth itself." A few other comments chimed in and agreed with the assessment of the eerie find.

The original poster wrote: "This is a camera set up in the woods, set up to take photos when it senses movement, main purpose is take photos of deer and other wildlife. There are no people that could be in the woods at that time especially without us knowing and it had to be moving to set the camera off."

(Image: Getty Images)

Further freaked out Facebook users weighed in on the sighting. One said it was the "eyes that chill me" and another worried for the "pairs of eyes behind" the "elemental" creature.

Other users suggested the sighting could be a "wendigo", a shape-shifting creature which can mimic the voices of people it has come into contact with, and the sounds of woodland creatures.

We would not suggest trying to capture the strange beast, but hunters across the globe were advised to carry a "giant net" and an elusive creatures costume should they hope to bag the legendary Bigfoot.

For the latest breaking news and stories from across the globe from the Daily Star, sign up for our newsletter by clicking here.