From 3h ago 08.26 GMT Navalny's mother not allowed into the morgue in Russia - spokesperson Alexei Navalny’s mother and his lawyers were not allowed into the morgue in the Russian town of Salekhard, near the prison colony where authorities said he died, Navalny’s spokesperson, Kira Yarmysh, said. “One of the lawyers was literally pushed out,” Yarmysh wrote on X, adding that morgue staff would not answer a question about where Navalny’s body was. Alexey’s mother and his lawyers arrived at the morgue early in the morning. They were not allowed to go in. One of the lawyers was literally pushed out. When the staff was asked if Alexey’s body was there, they did not answer — Кира Ярмыш (@Kira_Yarmysh) February 19, 2024 Navalny’s mother, Lyudmila Navalnaya, and his lawyer travelled over the weekend to the notorious “Polar Wolf” IK-3 penal colony in Russia’s Arctic north, where Navalny had been held since last year, to track down his body, but received contradicting information from various institutions over its location and left without recovering or seeing her son. Navalny, the Russian opposition leader who was a fierce Kremlin critic, had been serving a decades-long prison term on various charges, the latest of which was a 19-year sentence on six counts, in the remote penal colony within the Arctic Circle. He had been behind bars since returning from Germany in January 2021 for charges that he rejected as politically motivated. The 47-year-old former lawyer fell unconscious and died on Friday after a walk at the “Polar Wolf” penal colony in Kharp, about 1,900km (1,200 miles) northeast of Moscow, the prison service said. Navalny’s mother was told on Saturday at the prison colony that he had died from “sudden death syndrome”, a vague term for different hearth conditions that end in death, according to Navalny’s team. Yarmysh said Lyudmila Navalnaya, 69, and lawyers were told that the official verification of the cause of death had been extended and that it was unclear how long it would take. “The cause of death is ‘undetermined’,” Yarmysh said, adding that the Russian authorities were lying and stalling.

Updated at 08.29 GMT

22m ago 10.48 GMT Lisa O'Carroll Alexei Navalny’s widow Yulia will address foreign ministers gathered in Brussels at 12.45pm today, with a separate meeting with the president of the European Council at 1.30pm. Earlier, the EU’s chief diplomat Josep Borrell said their meeting would send a strong message of support to democrats in Russia. He said it would “send a message, a political message about how to support opposition, the political opposition inside Russia, against the Putin regime”. Navalny died in an Arctic prison last week, just days before the two-year mark of Moscow’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine. “(EU) member states will propose sanctions for sure against those responsible,” said Borrell. “The great responsible is Putin himself.” “We can go down the institutional structure of the penitentiary system in Russia,” he said, indicating whom the bloc would add to its list of people subjected to asset freezes and travel bans. “But don’t forget who is really responsible for Navalny’s death.”



26m ago 10.43 GMT Ukraine shot down four drones launched by Russia overnight on Sunday, the Ukrainian air force said in an update on Monday morning. The drones were launched in the direction of Kharkiv region from Russia’s Belgorod region, the air force wrote on Telegram.



44m ago 10.25 GMT Journalists confirm identities of over 44,000 Russian soldiers killed in Ukraine Journalists have confirmed the names of over 44,000 Russian soldiers who have been killed since Moscow launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine two years ago. The Kyiv Independent reports: Through open source research, Mediazona, a Russian independent media outlet, together with BBC Russia, confirmed the names of 44,654 Russian soldiers who had been killed since the beginning of Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. Since Mediazona’s last update in early February, the names of 1,194 Russian soldiers have been added to the list of casualties. The journalists specify that the actual figures are likely considerably higher since the information they have verified so far comes from public sources, including obituaries, posts by relatives, news in regional media, and reports by local authorities. In the past two weeks, 15 military personnel with ranks from Lieutenant Colonel and higher have been added to the list… Total estimates of Russia’s casualties since the full-scale invasion vary widely. Senior US defence officials estimate that about 315,000 Russian troops had either been killed or injured so far in the war. As of 18 February, the General Staff of Ukraine’s Armed Forces says that Russia lost 402,430 troops in Ukraine since the beginning of its full-scale invasion on 24 February, 2022.



51m ago 10.19 GMT At least 90 people have now been punished in Moscow and St Petersburg after the protests in Alexei Navalny’s name over the weekend, according to the human rights organisation, OVD-Info. In the Russian capital, Moscow, 20 people were sentenced to various amounts of prison time - ranging form one day to nine days - and two people were fined 10,000 rubles (£85), BBC News reports.

Updated at 10.19 GMT

1h ago 09.57 GMT Kremlin says west's reaction to Navalny's death is 'absolutely unacceptable' The Kremlin said that the west’s reaction to Alexei Navalny’s death was “absolutely unacceptable”. “We consider it absolutely unacceptable to make such, well, frankly obnoxious statements,” the Kremlin’s spokesperson, Dmitry Peskov, told reporters. “These statements, of course, cannot cause any damage to our head of our state,” Peskov said. Peskov said the investigation into Navalny’s death was ongoing and is being conducted in accordance with Russian law. Asked how Russia’s president, Vladimir Putin, reacted to news of the death, Peskov said: “I have nothing to add.” The death of the jailed Kremlin critic drew swift condemnation from international leaders, senior western officials and Russian opposition figures on Friday, who placed the blame firmly on Russia and called the death a “further sign of Putin’s brutality”. On Saturday, G7 foreign ministers gathered at the annual Munich security conference called on Russia to fully clarify the circumstances of Navalny’s death. The US president, Joe Biden, on Friday blamed “Putin and his thugs” for Navalny’s death and warned there could be consequences.

Updated at 10.39 GMT

1h ago 09.44 GMT Lisa O'Carroll Germany is proposing to host a Ukraine reconstruction conference at the end of June in Berlin, the foreign minister, Annalena Baerbock, has said. She also said she hoped Hungary would be backing the 13th round of sanctions, following hesitation last week. Arriving at the foreign ministers summit in Brussels, she promised the EU would continue to support the democracy in Russia for which Alexei Navalny had fought. Baerbock said: President (Putin) is taking action against freedom, the freedom of Ukraine, he is also taking action... against the freedom of his own country. We have not only seen this in the most brutal his brutality against freedom in Russia. Alexei Navalny had to pay with his life. Our thoughts are not only with with his family, with the many, many courageous people around Alexei Navalny who stand up for freedom in Russia, but we will also be here today with Yulia Navalny here in Brussels today, because the spirit of freedom can never be silenced forever.

Updated at 09.51 GMT

2h ago 09.28 GMT 'Putin is a murderer,' Estonia's foreign minister says Lisa O'Carroll Estonia’s foreign minister, Margus Tsahkna, did not mince his words on his way into the summit of foreign ministers in Brussels, calling Vladimir Putin a “murderer” and saying Ukraine urgently needs more ammunition. “Putin is a murderer. He has murdered one person who fought for freedom for democracy and this is exactly why we have to keep going.” “I’ve been asked many times during the last couple of days what our response is [to Navalny’s death] but the best response and most clear response would be this: finally do our job. “We have to support Ukraine. We have to give support to Ukraine by military ways and by political ways. We have to give Ukraine this 1mn round of ammunition that EU actually has promised a year ago for this March,” he said. EU diplomats have acknowledged that the EU has failed to meet this ammunition target, admitting recently it was only producing 500,000 rounds of ammunition and that the target would not be met until the end of the year. Tsahkna’s remarks come as neighbouring Lithuanian foreign minister sharply criticised fellow EU leaders for not doing enough to see a decisive defeat of Russia in Ukraine.



2h ago 09.22 GMT Austria to purchase 225 tanks for around €1.8bn to strengthen its military Austria’s defence minister, Klaudia Tanner, announced the procurement of 225 Pandur armoured personnel carriers for around €1.8bn (£1.5bn). The procurement is “an investment in the future, the security and the Austrian economy”, Tanner said during a press conference. Over 220 Austrian companies are involved in the tank’s manufacturing, the managing director of the producer, General Dynamics European Land Systems, added.



2h ago 09.10 GMT The EU will hopefully decide soon on a 13th package of sanctions against Russia, Germany’s foreign minister, Annalena Baerbock, said in Brussels on Monday, adding that this would take into consideration the death of Alexei Navalny.



2h ago 08.46 GMT Lithuania minister: It is a 'miracle' Ukraine has withstood Russian attacks with such low ammunition Lisa O'Carroll Lithuania’s foreign minister, Gabrielius Landsbergis, has launched a scathing attack on his EU counterparts for failing to step up to the plate to provide Ukraine with enough ammunition to defeat Russia.



On arrival at the summit of foreign ministers in Brussels, he said it was a “miracle that it has been able to withstand so far” given the “6:1” advantage Russia has in terms of ammunition.



“We spent two years discussing; trying to figure out the way that we can help Ukraine bit by bit,” he said. “But unfortunately, since we did not fall formulate a strategic goal for what we are trying to achieve, we’re unable to declare that we’re in this for the victory.” He urged the EU to stop dithering about military funds, with Germany doing the heavy lifting with €17bn contributed so far and Europe still debating a fund of €5bn a year.



“Europe should be able or could be able to form a fund of €5bn when, you know, Germany alone is considering sending €7bn. So for the 27 countries of Europe, €5 bn should be a day’s work, an hour’s work.” View image in fullscreen Gabrielius Landsbergis talks to reporters as he attends a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Brussels, Belgium. Photograph: Yves Herman/Reuters

Landsbergis also told journalists: The risk of war is not is not contained. And that is that the skeptical Russians are continuing and and we’re continuing debating.



I said that the main problem from the very onset of the war is that here in the west we could not; we were not able to formulate a goal of what we want to achieve.

Updated at 08.57 GMT

3h ago 08.33 GMT Belgium minister calls for EU to develop army amid fears of Russian expansion Lisa O'Carroll Belgium’s foreign minister, Hadja Lahbib, has called on the EU to develop an army amid increasing nervousness about Russia’s capacity to defeat Ukraine. She said: It’s been almost two years since Russia attacked Ukraine, trying to subjugate, to invade this country hungry for democracy and freedom, just like Putin’s fiercest opponent, Alexei Navalny, who died this weekend. Here too, we must become aware of what is at stake today. If Ukraine is invaded, if Russia manages to expand, it is a dictatorship that will expand and move a little closer to the European Union. It is essential that, here too, we are united, that we develop a defence capacity together, that we also develop an army, not only to defend our territory, but also our values. View image in fullscreen Hadja Lahbib talks to the press as she arrives for a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Brussels. Photograph: Yves Herman/Reuters



3h ago 08.26 GMT Navalny's mother not allowed into the morgue in Russia - spokesperson Alexei Navalny’s mother and his lawyers were not allowed into the morgue in the Russian town of Salekhard, near the prison colony where authorities said he died, Navalny’s spokesperson, Kira Yarmysh, said. “One of the lawyers was literally pushed out,” Yarmysh wrote on X, adding that morgue staff would not answer a question about where Navalny’s body was. Alexey’s mother and his lawyers arrived at the morgue early in the morning. They were not allowed to go in. One of the lawyers was literally pushed out. When the staff was asked if Alexey’s body was there, they did not answer — Кира Ярмыш (@Kira_Yarmysh) February 19, 2024 Navalny’s mother, Lyudmila Navalnaya, and his lawyer travelled over the weekend to the notorious “Polar Wolf” IK-3 penal colony in Russia’s Arctic north, where Navalny had been held since last year, to track down his body, but received contradicting information from various institutions over its location and left without recovering or seeing her son. Navalny, the Russian opposition leader who was a fierce Kremlin critic, had been serving a decades-long prison term on various charges, the latest of which was a 19-year sentence on six counts, in the remote penal colony within the Arctic Circle. He had been behind bars since returning from Germany in January 2021 for charges that he rejected as politically motivated. The 47-year-old former lawyer fell unconscious and died on Friday after a walk at the “Polar Wolf” penal colony in Kharp, about 1,900km (1,200 miles) northeast of Moscow, the prison service said. Navalny’s mother was told on Saturday at the prison colony that he had died from “sudden death syndrome”, a vague term for different hearth conditions that end in death, according to Navalny’s team. Yarmysh said Lyudmila Navalnaya, 69, and lawyers were told that the official verification of the cause of death had been extended and that it was unclear how long it would take. “The cause of death is ‘undetermined’,” Yarmysh said, adding that the Russian authorities were lying and stalling.

Updated at 08.29 GMT