The Way

9pm, BBC One

In a mega collaboration that nobody predicted, writer James Graham, actor-director Michael Sheen and film-maker Adam Curtis have made this haunting drama about an industrial strike. The daring three-parter takes place in a slightly reimagined world, but is set in Sheen’s Welsh home town of Port Talbot and against the very real controversy over the Tata steelworks. As the plant looms menacingly, the chaos of a civil uprising breaks out, dividing local residents and summoning ghosts of the area’s past. There is a focus on the troubled Driscoll family, whose lives have been shaped by the factory – including former addict son Owen, who is played by Callum Scott Howells (AKA Colin in It’s a Sin). It is aggressive, passionate and urgent television. Hollie Richardson

Breathtaking

9pm, ITV1

It is now four years since the pandemic began, and as more time goes by the subject somehow feels even harder to revisit in drama. This three-parter comes from Line of Duty writer Jed Mercurio, stars Joanne Froggatt and is based on Dr Rachel Clarke’s memoir about an NHS hospital ward during the initial breakout of the virus. It’s depressing as hell, but up there with Mr Bates vs the Post Office as TV that documents real-life injustice and has the potential to enrage a nation. Hollie Richardson

The Space Shuttle That Fell to Earth

9pm, BBC Two

In the second part of this absorbing documentary about the Columbia flight, Nasa engineers spot a piece of debris striking the space shuttle as it blasts off. As they analyse how it could affect the craft, heartbreaking footage and interviews show the crew’s families gathering near the runway waiting for their loved ones to land. Hannah Verdier

True Detective: Night Country

9pm, Sky Atlantic

With its benighted setting, troubled mood and prickly characters, the Alaskan brand extension of True Detective has won both devoted fans and vocal detractors. The season finale ends where it began with Danvers (Jodie Foster) and troubled trooper Navarro (Kali Reis) back at the Tsalal research station seeking answers amid a storm flurry. Graeme Virtue

Curb Your Enthusiasm

9pm, Sky Comedy

A stress-busting visit to the golf driving range? Of course, things can’t be that simple, as one of the great US comedies continues its farewell run. Larry overhears a golf tip that makes him temporarily happy, but proves to be a little too effective. While that causes chaos, Freddy (Vince Vaughn) tries to help out a neighbour. Jack Seale

View image in fullscreen Getting sustainable … Katherine Ryan, third from left, and daughter Violet with Sophie Broadbent and family at a protest march in Parental Guidance. Photograph: Adam Lawrence

Katherine Ryan: Parental Guidance

9pm, W

The comedian’s gem of a show combines both eco- and mum-guilt this week as she tries to get teenager Violet to live more sustainably. Spoiler alert: it’s not easy. Meanwhile, Bobby is promised a night out, then is abandoned. HV

Film choice

View image in fullscreen Sweet and sincere … The Letter Writer.

The Letter Writer (Layla Kaylif, 2024), Prime Video

Not to be confused with the 2011 movie of the same name, this is the debut film by singer-songwriter Lalya Kaylif, whose original screenplay won an award at the 2015 Dubai international film festival. Set in 1960s Dubai, The Letter Writer is the story of a young Arab nationalist boy hired each summer to be a professional translator and letter writer. However, his days of torching British flags are turned upside down when he is hired to write letters to a beautiful English woman. Shades of Cyrano de Bergerac abound in a film exactly as sweet and sincere as you could hope for. Stuart Heritage

Live sport

Premier League Football: Everton v Crystal Palace, 6.30pm, Sky Sports Main Event At Goodison Park.