A woman has been arrested on suspicion of murder after three children were found dead at a property in Bristol, police have said.

Avon and Somerset police said the discovery on Sunday was made after officers attended a concern for welfare call in Blaise Walk, Sea Mills, at about 12.40am. The three young children died at the scene, the force said. The suspect, 42, is in police custody at a hospital.

The Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC) said the force had informed it about the incident because of previous police contact in February.

An IOPC spokesperson said: “We were notified this afternoon about this tragic incident in Bristol by Avon and Somerset police, who advised us that there had been prior police contact earlier this month.

“We have requested a paper referral with further information about the prior contact and once received, we will assess it to determine whether further action is required from us.”

View image in fullscreen Police said they believed the tragedy to be an isolated incident. Photograph: Ben Birchall/PA

The Avon and Somerset police and crime commissioner, Mark Shelford, said: “I am deeply saddened by the news of the deaths of three children today in Sea Mills.

“The deaths of these children are heartbreaking. My thoughts are with all those who knew and cared for these children and with the local community, who I know will be impacted.

“The police have made an arrest and believe this to be an isolated incident. They have assessed that there is no further risk to the wider community.

“There are questions to be asked about how such an appalling event has occurred and what could have been done to prevent it, but for now, I ask that people allow the police to investigate.”

Vicks Hayward-Melen, the neighbourhood chief inspector, said: “This is an incredibly tragic and heartbreaking incident in which three children have sadly died. My sincere condolences go to the children’s loved ones and we will be ensuring they are offered support through our family liaison unit.

“Officers will remain at the scene to provide reassurance to anyone who has any questions or concerns. Over the coming days, residents can expect to see an increased police presence and we thank them for their cooperation during this time.”

The street is in a quiet neighbourhood about four miles north-west of Bristol city centre, and police officers were posted outside a semi-detached house on Sunday night. Others were carrying out door-to-door inquiries.

A woman, who did not wish to be named, described the arrested woman as “lovely”. She said the family had two boys, aged about eight years old and six months, and a girl aged about four. She said she had been struggling in the months after the birth of her youngest child.

“She was so happy when she had that little boy,” the woman said. “We were so happy for her, we came round and gave gifts. She was really gentle, really lovely. She always had a smile on her face. But after the baby she was having a really hard time.”

The neighbour said the woman was of Sudanese heritage.

A Methodist church hall was opened by police to give members of the community a place to meet and comfort one another.

The area’s community playgroup will be closed on Monday as a result of the tragedy.

Writing on Facebook, Sea Mills community playgroup said: “Due to the tragic events in our community today, playgroup will be cancelled tomorrow morning. Our hearts go out to the family and their friends, neighbours, school friends and wider community.”

A Bristol minicab driver who knows the family well said he had last seen the mother and children about a fortnight ago.

“I visited them because I heard there was a family problem between [the children’s mother and father]. I wanted to find out if we could help,” he said.

He said the father, who worked as a security guard, was not living at the house at that point. “She wasn’t happy with her husband,” he added. “Her kids were all happy. I asked them whether they needed my help as a taxi driver.

View image in fullscreen A police chief inspector described the incident as ‘incredibly tragic and heartbreaking’. Photograph: Ben Birchall/PA

“They asked me to take them to Tesco. They did their shopping then I took them back home.

“She is a very nice person. It is very sad. Sudanese are normally patient people. You would not have these sort of issues normally. We have a very close community here. I heard about what had happened and came over.”

The minicab driver said the eldest child had been born in Sudan and the others in the UK.

Detectives from the major crime investigation team are investigating the deaths.

Darren Jones, the MP for Bristol North West, wrote on X: “I’m deeply saddened by this tragic news from Sea Mills today. My thoughts and prayers are with the friends and family of the children, and my thanks go to our emergency services who responded.

“Police will remain in the area but consider this to be an isolated incident.”

The mayor of Bristol, Marvin Rees, wrote on X: “It’s almost impossible to find the words to describe this afternoon’s devastating news from Sea Mills.

“My thoughts are with all who knew these three young children – we will be working with schools, the community and the police to support people.”