Did you know that the Guardian has been making podcasts for a decade now? That the word “podcasting” was coined by Ben Hammersley writing for the Guardian in 2004? That what was for many years the world’s most downloaded podcast, The Ricky Gervais Show, was first released on our site?

You can review and subscribe on The Guardian, iTunes, Audioboom and acast

Talk to us on Facebook, Twitter and Email and let us know what podcasts you love (not just our own) for a chance to feature in our Hear Here column.

Here you’ll find all of our current (and some of our past) podcasts in one place, many of which have won awards, they’re that good. We cover the latest in everything from current affairs, culture, race, identity, politics, science, tech, music, books & more.

View image in fullscreen Today in Focus Illustration: Guardian Design

Today in Focus

Hosted by Anushka Asthana, Today in Focus brings you closer to Guardian journalism. Combining personal storytelling with insightful analysis, Today in Focus is The Guardian’s daily podcast that takes you behind the headlines for a deeper understanding of the news, every weekday.

Find us: The Guardian, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts & Spotify

View image in fullscreen Football Weekly Illustration: Guardian Design

The Football Weekly pod squad bring you a twice-weekly dose of puns and punditry, news and analysis from the Premier League and beyond throughout the season. Join Max Rushden and Barry Glendenning and the rest of the pod squad every Monday and Thursday throughout the season for your dose of puns and punditry and the best analysis of the Premier League, European football, and beyond.



Find us: The Guardian, Apple Podcasts, Soundcloud, acast & Audioboom

Get in touch: @Guardiansports & footballweekly@theguardian.com

View image in fullscreen The Audio Long Read Illustration: Guardian Design

As you’ve probably guessed, our audio long reads podcasts are a selection of the Guardian’s long read articles which are published in the paper and online. It gives you the opportunity to get on with your day whilst listening to some of the finest journalism the Guardian has to offer: in-depth writing from around the world on immigration, crime, business, the arts, and much more. The audio long reads make a perfect podcast on that long commute or if you ever have a spare 40 minutes.

Find us: The Guardian, Apple Podcasts, acast & Audioboom

Get in touch: @GuardianAudio & podcasts@theguardian.com

View image in fullscreen Politics Weekly Illustration: Guardian Design

The Guardian’s Heather Stewart and Jessica Elgot are joined every week by commentators, experts and politicians to unpack the biggest stories in politics. Plus; each week, Jonathan Freedland gives listeners a bonus episode looking at politics in the US

Find us: The Guardian, Apple Podcasts, acast & Audioboom

Get in touch: @Guardianpolitics & podcasts@theguardian.com

View image in fullscreen Science Weekly Illustration: Guardian Design

The award-winning Science Weekly podcast is the best place to learn about the big discoveries and debates in biology, chemistry, physics, health, environment and sometimes even technology. The Guardian science team - Nicola Davis, Ian Sample, Linda Geddes and Natalie Grover – are joined by colleagues Sarah Boseley, Alex Hern, Patrick Greenfield and Phoebe Weston to meet the great thinkers and doers in science, Covid-related or otherwise

Find us: The Guardian, Apple Podcasts, acast & Audioboom

Get in touch: @GuardianScience& scienceweekly@theguardian.com







































