When Dr John Kerr worked for an art installation company in London, he helped transport highly valuable paintings by renowned artists such as Lucian Freud, Constable and Gainsborough. Pieces would be delivered to museums, offices, churches, galleries and private houses to be displayed or restored.



“As an art installer, I’d be hanging paintings worth millions of pounds, which got me thinking about art theft and fraud,” says Kerr, whose curiosity eventually led him to a criminology PhD specialising in art crime, and then to his current role as head of policing and criminology at The University of Law.

“I started to wonder about the security surrounding the art, and where paintings might end up when they get stolen. And what the point of stealing a really expensive piece might be, when it’s hard to resell. You can’t sell a Rembrandt on the normal market. Ultimately, when I researched my PhD, I found out that, on the black market, stolen art is worth 10% of its value, so it’s used as collateral in organised crime [it can be used to secure a loan or exchanged for weapons or drugs], or for ‘artnapping’ to try to receive a ransom or reward.”

His fascination with the topic grew. “I’d hear stories about big thefts in the media, yet discovered that there are very few police officers in England and Wales involved in the policing of art crime. I wanted to know a lot more about the subject.”

Like Kerr, people are drawn to study criminology for all kinds of reasons. With the proliferation of true-crime stories and detective dramas appearing on our screens, Kindles and podcasts, it’s no surprise that it is such a popular undergraduate degree.

View image in fullscreen Kerr’s work installing art led him to question the security surrounding the artworks. Photograph: Tom Werner/Getty Images

For Kerr, the study of crime also appeals because it gives a 360-degree view of society. “A degree in this subject allows us to examine crime and society critically, and ask difficult questions about justice and its processes.”



Students who pursue a BA (Hons) in criminology can expect to study why people commit crime – from cybercrime to terrorism – and even how it’s reported in the media.



When it comes to careers, The University of Law’s criminology graduates are likely to enjoy a wide choice. Some might find themselves working within the criminal justice system, or in teaching, social care or journalism, while others might choose to use their skills in more general graduate roles.

“The primary destinations for criminology graduates are the police, prison and probation services, and court and security services. They also head to not-for-profit organisations, particularly those that work with young offenders, ex-offenders or crime victims,” says Charlie Ball, graduate labour market expert at Prospects, a digital career services agency for graduates.

“But a criminology degree has quite a large scope, and is applicable to a lot of roles. About 60% of all jobs for graduates are not fixated on a particular subject, so if you study criminology but decide you don’t want to follow that path, you can still enter most normal graduate training schemes.”

He adds that with a criminology degree “you’ll be bringing something interesting to the table when it comes to finding a career”.

Another benefit of studying criminology, says Ball, is that there are meaningful job opportunities across the UK – which is particularly apt when The University of Law teaches criminology on campuses in London, Birmingham, Manchester and Leeds.

“Jobs in criminology tend to have good job stability and security – and those aspects are big pluses for graduates,” he says.

The University of Law has a criminology and policing careers consultant who organises recruitment talks from different areas of the criminal justice sector, and even when graduates have left the university they can still use its employability service.

During their studies, students can expect to have their perceptions challenged – and even changed. “As well as skills that are helpful, such as problem-solving and being able to write and present well, students pick up more empathy and emotional intelligence when it comes to the complexities of life,” says Kerr.

“Undergraduates often come to the degree course with views and preconceptions they’ve picked up through TV and the news, but they quickly see that things aren’t always as they’re presented, and learn to understand the problems in our society more deeply,” he says.

“Being made more aware of the injustices of issues such as homelessness can be hard, but it also makes students think, ‘I can make a change – and that’s what I want to do.’”

Find out more about studying criminology at The University of Law