Arsenal cruised to a comfortable 3-1 ­victory at the Emirates to reignite their title challenge. In a controlled performance in front of a record-breaking 60,160 crowd they put three first-half goals past a disappointing Manchester United. An own goal from Geyse gave the hosts an early lead before Cloé Lacasse and a Kim Little penalty sealed the points. Lucía García scored a late ­consolation goal for the visitors.

With Manchester City’s narrow win over Chelsea the previous evening, the title race had been blown wide open. It was a result that gave Arsenal an opportunity to haul themselves right back into the conversation, one which they grabbed with both hands.

Jonas Eidevall was keen to keep his team’s feet on the ground despite a statement result. “It would be nice to say it will be really significant, but the reality is it’s about what we do in the next eight games that will give this victory any value,” he said. “That is our mindset.”

It has been a turbulent time for the Gunners in recent weeks with back-to-back morale-sapping defeats. They had, however, stopped the slide in midweek when they secured a place in the League Cup semi-final. Eidevall made just two changes to that side with Sabrina D’Angelo returning in goal and Beth Mead replacing Caitlin Foord in attack.

The visitors have been enduring an up-and-down season but came into this encounter having won their last three in all competitions. With their title hopes all but ­extinguished, Champions League remains their aim, and a victory at the Emirates would have brought them within a point of third place. Marc Skinner made two changes with Geyse and García returning.

Skinner’s team came into this with fond memories of the Emirates after their dramatic 3-2 victory here last season, and they looked to hit the Gunners with energy and pace. Nikita Parris, enjoying an impressive vein of form, pressed eagerly in the opening minutes, challenging a somewhat makeshift defensive line. Laia Codina struggled particularly and a fumble from D’Angelo gave the ­visitors a gilt-edged chance which Parris squandered.

View image in fullscreen Kim Little scores from the penalty spot to put Arsenal up 3-0 before half time. Photograph: Andrew Couldridge/Action Images/Reuters

Weathering the storm, however, the hosts soon took control as they started to dictate possession with Mead and Lacasse stretching the play. Little was also making her ­presence felt, setting the tempo as Arsenal continued to attack.

The opening goal came in unfortunate circumstances for the visitors after Gemma Evans had defended well for a corner. Katie McCabe’s delivery to the near post hit Geyse and ricocheted past Mary Earps who was left unsighted, helpless to prevent it rolling over the line.

It took any early sting out of United as they sat off their opponents. Stina Blackstenius added a directness to the hosts’ play as they broke between the lines. The inevitable second goal soon came after with good build-up play. Victoria Pelova’s pass was behind Blackstenius but flicked up off the defending Katie Zelem for Lacasse to head home unmarked.

skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to Moving the Goalposts Free newsletter No topic is too small or too big for us to cover as we deliver a twice-weekly roundup of the wonderful world of women’s football Enter your email address Sign up Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion

Arsenal deepened the visitors’ woes just before the break when Evans felled Mead in the box. Little stepped up to convert, rounding off an almost perfect half while Skinner cut an immensely frustrated figure as he trudged down the tunnel.

With the game practically wrapped up, Arsenal could afford to step off the gas while United desperately tried to claw themselves back into the game. There were chances at both ends and the visitors eventually got a ­consolation through García.

It was a damning result for United who now have a mountain to climb to reach Europe next season despite Skinner’s attempts to keep up morale. “I don’t think the word damaging is the conversation,” he said. “We’re still chasing, we’ve got to chase. That’s what we’ll do, that’s what our team are resilient enough to do. We have to be almost perfect to come to the Emirates and win and we weren’t today.

There was delight for the Gunners on the other hand who celebrated in front of their jubilant fans. It was a joyous finale to a difficult few weeks that gave them renewed hope in their title ambitions.