A firm of funeral directors sent Valentine’s Day cards to residents of a care home, in what has been described as an “appalling stunt” that the undertakers have admitted was “misjudged”.

The cards sent to Whitegates Care Centre in Surrey were decorated with a red heart and a pink bow, the Sun reported, and bore the words: “Sent with love from TH Sanders & Sons.”

One relative, who was not named, told the paper: “Luckily, we managed to hide it away before mum could see it as it would have been devastating. It’s appalling for a funeral directors to be trying to attract new customers by targeting vulnerable elderly people.”

Another said: “This would have caused them great confusion, upset and disappointment as often they are here after losing their lifelong partners.”

Defending the distribution of the cards to residents on Friday, the care home said: “We’re deeply embedded within the local community, and we value the support and engagement of all our neighbours, including TH Sanders. Out of their own kindness and goodwill, they have brought warmth, joy, and generosity to residents through various initiatives.

“From delivering Christmas blankets, donating to our charity raffles, sending in cards and sweets, to gifting seeds for our garden, their contributions have been received with gratitude and appreciation from both residents and our team members alike.

“Residents were thrilled to receive the Valentine’s Day cards and they all had a lovely day celebrating.”

A spokesperson for the funeral director’s parent company, Dignity, said: “We deeply regret any unintended distress caused by the Valentine’s card sent to Whitegates Care Centre by one of our branches.

skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to First Edition Free daily newsletter Our morning email breaks down the key stories of the day, telling you what’s happening and why it matters Enter your email address Sign up Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion

“We are committed to maintaining a positive and respectful relationship with the communities we serve. We accept that, in this instance, our efforts to connect with the local community were misjudged and not appropriate.”