Winning tip: a jolly good vélo, Brittany and Normandy

I’ve enjoyed a lovely four- to five-day circular trip using ferries and bikes. We took the Brittany Ferries overnight sailing from Portsmouth-St Malo, then cycled along La Véloscénie [signposted cycle route] passing Mont Saint-Michel. At Domfront we took La Vélo Francette to Ouistreham and then the ferry back to Portsmouth. At least three-quarters of the ride is off road along former railway track cycle paths that are well maintained. Plenty of accommodation is available. With the exception of a hilly few miles around Flers, it’s all very easy and with the prevailing wind. The final 40 miles from the impressive Viaduc de Clécy is all downhill, passing Pegasus Bridge.

Keith Perry

Profile Readers' tips: send a tip for a chance to win a £200 voucher for a Coolstays break Show Guardian Travel readers' tips Every week we ask our readers for recommendations from their travels. A selection of tips will be featured online and may appear in print. To enter the latest competition visit the readers' tips homepage - Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback.

No wheels, Hydra, Greece

View image in fullscreen Mules are used for carrying goods and people in Hydra. Photograph: Dimitrios Tilis/Getty Images

I had such a lovely slow holiday with my family, including two young children, on the Greek island of Hydra off the east of the Peloponnese, quite close to Athens. The island does not allow cars or any other transport with wheels, so we spent our days walking from one village to the other or from our accommodation to a beach. Everything was accessible by walking or by donkey – the owner of our Airbnb took the kids for a ride sometimes. It really made us appreciate time together, chatting, playing cards, reading and watching the stray cats. It’s still one of our fondest memories as a family. We opted for one of the cheapest houses on the island, with the bare minimum, but it was definitely enough.

Elodie

Pinnacles and pints in the Peak District

View image in fullscreen A view from Kinder Scout. Photograph: RA Kearton/Getty Images

For me, the point of slow travel is to really get to know a place – not just visit the often overcrowded highlights. Over the past year I have being doing just that in the Peak District. The creation of the Ethel Challenge lists all 95 peaks in the national park with summits higher than 400 metres. Slowly working through the challenge has exposed me to some stunning sights on head-clearing walks, notably the windswept moorland of the Kinder Scout, Thor’s Cave, and the mossy chasm Lud’s Church. And, of course, there have been plenty of great pubs along the way.

Everly

Pitching up in Southwold, Suffolk

View image in fullscreen A VW campervan enters Southwold. Photograph: John Cairns/Alamy

Our favourite slow break in our 1979 Volkswagen is to the municipal campsite at Southwold (pitches from £36.50 a night). Like the town, it appears little has changed since the 1950s. Our old campervan is pitched just as soon as I’ve pulled on the handbrake and we’ve popped up the roof. We then wind down with chilled wine and canapes from our little fridge before taking the dog for a gentle stroll. There’s half a dozen pubs within about 30 minutes’ walk, where a relaxing meal and a leisurely evening is just waiting to be enjoyed.

Dave Richards

Pedalling across the UK’s islands

View image in fullscreen Cyclists waiting for the ferry from Hoy to mainland Orkney. Photograph: Peter Lopeman/Alamy

Visiting the islands of the UK by bicycle is my perfect slow adventure. Cycling feels harmonious with people’s lives in remote parts and offers time to savour all we see, while slowly meandering among coastlines and rolling countryside. Ferry timetables add to the slow pace, as there is a need to savour all there is to see before waiting for the next short hop. Word of cyclists arriving spreads quickly and locals have offered us the most wonderful hospitality, always pleased we are using local businesses (B&Bs, cabins and eateries) instead of hurtling through in a camper pre-loaded with supplies. We’ve had joyous holidays in the Isles of Scilly, Orkney, Shetland, Outer Hebrides, Skye and the Inner Hebrides. Can’t wait to visit more.

Angela

skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to The Traveller Free newsletter Get travel inspiration, featured trips and local tips for your next break, as well as the latest deals from Guardian Holidays Enter your email address Sign up Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion

A spot of ‘curiosity-hopping’, Glasgow

View image in fullscreen The University Cafe was visited by Anthony Bourdain. Photograph: Derek Copland/Alamy

During my recent visit to Glasgow, I delved into the art of “curiosity hopping”. As a Manchester native more inclined to summon an Uber than stroll, walking considerable distances felt inefficacious. That initial night, I spent an hour mapping hidden gems along planned routes, sourced from local web pages and forums. Noteworthy finds included a Victorian coin in a staircase and a 1980s art installation under a bridge. Actively seeking curiosities led me to an unassuming cafe frequented by Anthony Bourdain while hunting for a rat painting on a kerb. This serendipitous encounter birthed a unique memory, a tale now shared with fellow food enthusiasts – a superb approach to savouring a mini break at a leisurely pace.

Amanda Gardner

The beauty of Bute, Argyll

View image in fullscreen Kilchattan Bay. Photograph: Scott O’Neill/Getty Images

Visiting the Isle of Bute, 40 miles west of Glasgow, is a perfect way of soothing a busy mind. Cycling is the best way of seeing the island. We started in Kilchattan Bay in the south, where we watched wonderful wader birds such as oystercatchers, then wandered on the beach, seeing sea glass among the countless beautiful shells and pebbles. We cycled on empty roads to the remains of St Blane’s chapel, which goes back to AD500. Here there were wonderful views to the more mountainous isle of Arran. At Ettrick Bay, with its wide sandy beach, we sat alone with just the curlews for company. We ended with a stop at Helmi’s cafe in Rothesay before a ferry back to the mainland, refreshed after a wonderful trip.

Hossein