Yes, Rochdale does deserve better than the current byelection situation, but in her catalogue of the town’s political ills, Marina Hyde has made a significant omission (Conspiracists, chancers and a sexter – Rochdale deserves better, and frankly we all do, 13 February). For seven years, from June 2017 until January 2024, Rochdale had the best. We in Rochdale were fortunate enough to be represented by Tony Lloyd, the most dignified, principled and humane politician it has ever been my honour to know.

Tony’s death is still raw and he is still being mourned in Rochdale and right across the world. The 90 minutes of cross-party parliamentary tributes to him on 23 January pay tribute to his work and to the affection and esteem in which he is still held.

Tony worked hard and spoke out loudly for the people of Rochdale, and his memory and achievements must not be cast aside in the pursuit of short-term sensationalism.

Tricia Ayrton

Rochdale, Greater Manchester

The controversy over the Labour candidate for the Rochdale byelection provides a perfect opportunity for people there to send a powerful message to the main political parties that the climate crisis must be a priority. The people of Rochdale can vote for the Rev Mark Coleman, a local man and courageous climate campaigner, who not only talks the talk, but walks the walk. I do hope Rochdale voters grab this opportunity with both hands.

Molly Berry

Marsworth, Buckinghamshire

Thanks for reminding everyone of the tale of social disasters and depravities that Rochdale is now synonymous with (and there are others). My heart sank a bit further with each revelation – it’s listed as my birthplace on my passport and I sense I’m adversely judged whenever I need to submit it for scrutiny.

I just want to reset the story a bit by going back further – I grew up being very proud that Rochdale was the birthplace of the co-operative movement (drummed into me by my leftwing parents), so in 1844 the town had a good name. Can’t we just leave it there?

David Vaughan

Waterford, Hertfordshire

This town gets a bad reputation for all the wrong reasons. Instead of looking at the renovation of the town’s infrastructure and incredible industry we are stuck with all these dreary stories of past horrors. Rochdale is a fantastic town that has struggled from deindustrialisation and, of course, Conservative cuts. But it is thriving, growing and developing.

Come and look at the newly renovated Victorian town hall, new shopping centre, civic centre and trams. We don’t need a bunfight between a failed Labour candidate, a disgraced ex-Labour MP and the divisive George Galloway; we need a competent Labour MP to follow the excellent Tony Lloyd. Is that too much to ask?

Donald Entwistle

Rochdale, Greater Manchester

Whereas I am inclined to agree with Marina Hyde regarding men who wear felt hats indoors, it is not true to say that medieval leprosy bells were cruel. Leprosy often affected the larynx, rendering the sufferer unable to speak. The bell was essential in order to attract attention and signal a request for alms. The relevance to the election might be the pressing need for candidates to become the voice of the nearly 7 million people on NHS waiting lists and the 2.8 million workers inactive through ill health.

Dr John Puntis

Co-chair, Keep Our NHS Public; retired consultant paediatrician