Whether it’s squabbles over the office air conditioning or a family member telling you to put on another jumper, heating has always been a hot topic. However, with rising energy costs and the pressing climate crisis at the front of everyone’s mind, how we keep our homes warm is getting even more attention. While we might crave that satisfying feeling of nearly scalding our hand on a radiator when we crank up our central heating, we need to adopt a new mindset.

The UK is still very much reliant on fossil fuels for heating our homes. At the same time, reduction of fossil fuel usage is the number one priority when it comes to combating climate change, meaning the way we heat our homes is long overdue for an overhaul. In England, 90% of homes (pdf) have a boiler system with radiators as their main form of heating, while across the UK, 25m gas boilers are in use, which accounts to 16% of the nation’s total greenhouse gas emissions. To put it into perspective, for the UK to meet the government’s net zero target by 2050, about 8m buildings will need to switch from gas boilers to cleaner alternatives by 2035.

In many European countries it’s a different story. Heat pumps, which extract the heat from the air outside, even when it’s cold, using electricity for power and no gas, have long been popular in Nordic countries. Norway leads the way worldwide with the devices installed in 60% of all households, while in Sweden more than 40% of homes have one. Just 1% of British homes have a heat pump.

Heat pumps can technically produce more energy than the electricity that is put into them, making them more than 100% efficient. The Energy Saving Trust suggests there is a 70% carbon reduction when you compare heat pumps with a traditional gas boiler. It seems like a no-brainer and with the increase to the government boiler upgrade scheme for those living in England and Wales from £5,000 to £7,500, the cost of installing for eligible households can be brought below that of the average gas boiler. Another attraction is that heat pumps can outlive gas boilers (pdf).

In France, where new buildings are no longer permitted to install oil- or coal-fuelled boilers, heat pumps are now outselling fossil fuel boilers for the first time, according to the International Energy Agency.

Heat pumps work best in well-insulated houses and regardless of whether you’re ready to move away from a traditional boiler, a sufficiently insulated house is crucial for keeping it comfortable. Insulation keeps the warm air in and the cold air out, ensuring the efficient running of the heating system. This means less energy is used to heat the home, which is better for the environment and your bank account.

Historically, homes in the UK were not built with good insulation and with many of us living in these older properties, investing in insulation is key. In addition, existing insulation in some homes can be too old to be effective and won’t meet current standards.

In the long-term, it makes financial sense to install insulation. According to government research, you can save up to £270 a year by installing roof and loft insulation, which creates a barrier to heat escaping from your upper rooms to the loft and through the roof. Installation costs are generally between £400 and £1,200 and the measure could last up to 42 years, meaning potential total savings of up to £11,340. Cavity wall insulation – that prevents warm air from circulating around the cavity – is another worthwhile option, which could save home owners up to £300 a year. For this type of installation, costs range between £1,000 and £3,000 and the measure could last up to 42 years, meaning savings of up to £12,600.

Whether you upgrade your insulation or switch to a greener boiler alternative like a heat pump, as a nation we need to let go of old ways of thinking when it comes to heating our homes. If we do so, it will help our purses – and lessen our impact on the environment.

From heat pumps to insulation, solar panels and more, explore ways the government can support you at gov.uk/energy-efficient-home.