Formula One has called for Christian Horner’s Red Bull future to be “clarified at the earliest opportunity”. Horner’s role as Red Bull team principal remains in the balance after a claim of “inappropriate behaviour” by a female colleague.

Speaking at Red Bull Racing’s car launch in Milton Keynes on Thursday, the 50-year-old continued to deny emphatically the allegations made against him, and said he would be in Bahrain for the opening race of the season on 2 March.

An F1 spokesperson said on Sunday evening: “We have noted that Red Bull has instigated an independent investigation into internal allegations at Red Bull Racing. We hope that the matter will be clarified at the earliest opportunity, after a fair and thorough process, and we will not comment further at this time.”

Horner said he was unable to provide a timeline as to when the investigation by the racing team’s parent company, Red Bull GmBH, will be completed.

It is understood Red Bull and Horner are also keen for a swift resolution, and sources have indicated that there could yet be a conclusion by the end of the week. However, it is thought unlikely that a resolution will be found in the next 48 hours.

Testing for the new campaign begins in Bahrain on Wednesday. Last season, Red Bull won all but one of the 22 races, with Max Verstappen taking his third world championship in as many years.

Asked if he will be in the Middle East for the first race of Verstappen’s bid to become a four-time world champion, Horner said last week: “Yes. I will be in Bahrain. The process has been going on in the background. Obviously, there’s been a day job to be getting on with, which is gearing up for the season ahead of us.

“I have a hugely supportive family, a very supportive wife. I have felt the support from within the business and our partners, and the support from within the industry has been overwhelming, too.

skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to The Recap Free weekly newsletter The best of our sports journalism from the past seven days and a heads-up on the weekend’s action Enter your email address Sign up Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion

“I am confident in the process, which I have fully complied with and will continue to do so, and absolutely deny any of the allegations that have been made against me. For me, it is business as normal. If it wasn’t, I wouldn’t be here.”