Overview

Shares

Stay in central London, see the tennis in Wimbledon

On this exciting brand-new tennis and hotel break, you can experience the sights of central London and enjoy all the action on Wimbledon’s No.1 Court, and with its retractable roof, you're guaranteed a great day of tennis, whatever the weather. Perhaps embrace the opportunity to enjoy a day out in the city before spending a night in your chosen centrally located London hotel, with breakfast included the following day. You’ll then make your own way to The Championships and claim your reserved seat on No.1 Court. Once there, you can experience the unique atmosphere of the famous Wimbledon grounds and outside courts, treat yourself to some tasty strawberries and cream and perhaps a glass or two of champagne or Pimms, soak up the atmosphere and the energy of the crowds gathered on the slopes of Henman Hill. On the final Friday, the No.1 Court Order of Play normally includes some of the semi-finals of the main doubles’ competitions. On the final Saturday and Sunday, No.1 Court matches generally showcase the stars of tomorrow and yesteryear in the finals of the Junior and Invitation events (please be aware that all schedules are at the discretion of The Championships Referee and could be subject to change at short notice). You can wander the grounds and outside courts at your leisure and perhaps watch some of the Centre Court action on the big screen on Henman Hill. Throughout this experience, you'll have access to a dedicated Newmarket Holidays Customer Service Centre, and once you're there, you'll also have the support of the on-site Newmarket Holidays team. Newmarket Holidays has been officially appointed by The Championships Wimbledon for the sale of No.1 Court tickets. All images © AELTC 2018

Freedom and flexibility to travel at leisure yourself between your hotel and Wimbledon (no transfers included)

Enjoy a night taking in the highlights of central London and make the most of a full day at the Wimbledon Championships

Wander the grounds and outside courts, and join enthusiastic supporters on Henman Hill

Keep an eye out for famous tennis players and celebrities while soaking up the energy of the crowd

Access to a dedicated Newmarket Holidays Customer Service Centre

Gallery

Highlights and Inclusions One night's bed and continental breakfast accommodation at your chosen centrally located London hotel

Access to a dedicated Newmarket Holidays Customer Service Centre

Entrance into the Wimbledon grounds and a reserved seat on No.1 Court

Itinerary Day

Day 1 Make your own way to your chosen centrally located London hotel to check in. You can then spend the rest of the day at your leisure. Please note, hotel check in times may vary. Day

Day 2 Following breakfast, check out of your hotel and make your own way to the iconic Wimbledon grounds. The gates to the Championships usually open mid-morning. For the rest of the day, you can enjoy the action of the world's foremost tennis tournament at your leisure. On the final Friday, the No.1 Court Order of Play normally includes some of the semi-finals of the main doubles’ competitions. On the final Saturday and Sunday, No.1 Court matches generally showcase the stars of tomorrow and yesteryear in the finals of the Junior and Invitation events (please be aware that all schedules are at the discretion of The Championships Referee and could be subject to change at short notice). You can wander the grounds and outside courts at your leisure and perhaps watch some of the Centre Court action on the big screen on Henman Hill. Experience the jubilant atmosphere and treat yourself to some strawberries and cream or a glass or two of Pimms. You’re free to leave Wimbledon at any time (subject to the gate closing times) to make your own way home.