If you add a Fair Isle jumper to your winter rotation you’ll enjoy some hygge in sweater form. Originating on the eponymous island in Shetland, the Fair Isle jumper uses a traditional knitting technique that creates patterns using multiple colours at once. With their intricate patterns and artisanal credentials these knits are loved by designers, including Molly Goddard (pictured left), who has created a new spin on the style each season alongside her tulle skirts. Ralph Lauren’s British heritage aesthetic also favours the design, while Khaite’s creative director Catherine Holstein showed multiple versions of the printed knit, from a traditional turtleneck sweater to a street-style hoodie.

View image in fullscreen Molly Goddard SS24 Photograph: Gareth Cattermole/BFC/Getty Images

Be prepared to play fast and loose with the term Fair Isle while browsing online. It’s very much “inspired by” territory on the high street. Purists should try a hand-knitted jumper by Fair Isle with Marie, £365, or a fisherman’s kep (woolly hat), £85. If you’re handy with the knitting needles, you can download a pattern for £10 and whip up your own (fairislewithmarie.com). Knitwear specialists Eribé also offers made-in-Scotland styles for men and women, from £188.

More versatile than you may think the Fair Isle knit works as a solo piece or styled under an oversized check coat in a complimentary colour. Or try a neater look under a leather blazer with straight-leg white trousers and polished loafers. As with all heritage designs it doesn’t date and will be a winter staple for years to come. Now is the best time to pick up a sale bargain with most high street styles are marked down by 50%; Benetton’s jacquard men’s navy style is down from £99.95 to £49.95. SeaSalt Cornwall has several tank tops, some reduced to £47.95. Style one over a shirt and wear it with a maxi skirt.

1. Neutral, was £129, now £7o, hush-uk.com

View image in fullscreen french connection

2. Jacquard, was £85, now £42.50, French Connection (tuclothing.sainsburys.co.uk)

3. Green, £225, toa.st

4. Navy, was £99.95, now £49.95, benetton.com

5. Monochrome, was £115, now £50, cos.com

6. Rune, was £280, now £140, norseprojects.com

skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to Fashion Statement Free weekly newsletter Style, with substance: what's really trending this week, a roundup of the best fashion journalism and your wardrobe dilemmas solved Enter your email address Sign up Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion

7. Alpine, was £115, now £77, peregrineclothing.co.uk

8. Minimal, was £178, now £108, reiss.com

9. Red detail, £60, gap.co.uk

10. Mohair, was £215, now £125, Brora, (johnlewis.com)