Pre-kids, I’d head to the train station every Monday to Friday morning, pot of porridge in hand, headphones on and handbag bursting with necessities for work. I didn’t love the elbowing and jostling that met me at the station, but the comforting trundle of the train shimmying along the tracks and the knowledge that I could sit back and do nothing was really quite pleasant.

Nowadays, I no longer have that gentle ease into the madness of the day as I’m a mum of three who works from home, but I still gladly opt for taking the train over driving any chance I get.

Luckily, I have great rail links to London, so to kick off 2024 in sustainable style I decide to make the half-hour journey (yes, that fast!) from our Milton Keynes home to Euston with my children. Like many people, we’re trying to be a bit greener. Turns out that cars and planes create 58% of the UK’s transport CO2 emissions, according to the Department for Transport. Meanwhile, the entire rail network adds up to just 1.5%*. So taking the train is a small change that makes a big difference.

Our trip is one last hurrah before term starts, a jaunt to the Natural History Museum to see the Wildlife Photographer of the Year exhibition.

My children, aged nine, six and two, are good at many things, but sitting still isn’t one of them. It can make car journeys more than a little stressful. On the motorway, at least one will complain about feeling sick and I’ll be required to operate a conveyor belt of snacks for the other two. Our train journey engenders no such problems; all three remain with bums on seats for the duration of the trip, and without a screen in sight. Bliss!

We don’t go by train that often so any time we get to whiz away there’s a real family buzz. It’s a cold winter’s morning, but with warm drinks from the station and a cosy carriage, we’re set for a good day. We remark at the sheep in fields, clouds in the sky and a shop where their dad once bought 20 ring doughnuts that he ate in one sitting.

Aside from general chit-chat, the journey is a great opportunity to discuss with the kids why we haven’t travelled by car that day. One of our children is a member of the eco team at school so is relatively well-versed on sustainability and the changes we can make to help our environment. On this trip, as neither I nor their dad is busy watching the road, we’re able to include the other two and have a real family discussion about a vital issue. We spend a good chunk of our time discussing why swapping a road trip for train travel is better for the planet.

What’s so great about rail is that it’s a sustainable choice you can put a real number to. Compared with driving, taking the train creates 67% less CO2*, so the train allows us to not just talk the talk, but walk the walk – or, in this case, train the train! According to the “I came by train” carbon calculator, we saved 5.6kg of CO2*. When you think of the collective power of every one of us swapping just one car journey for a train in 2024, the impact builds into something quite exciting.

A simple swap to make an environmental impact

I came by train is a collective movement supported by the rail booking platform Trainline to help fight climate change. It draws on the combined power of small actions taken by many to create a bigger impact.



Whether it’s a commute, a holiday or a family get-together, swap one journey in 2024 and help create a collective impact with the thousands of others who have already pledged to choose train travel for the environment this year.



Cars and planes create 58% of the UK’s transport CO2 emissions, while the entire rail network adds up to just 1.5%. It’s almost always better to swap a car ride for a train journey, but the impact is amplified for solo drivers: taking the train instead of driving is 67% less polluting*.

At the Natural History Museum we pass hour upon hour gazing up – a diplodocus here, an albertosaurus there – before heading into the main event. I’m pleasantly surprised at what the children take from the wildlife exhibition’s images and the accompanying captions. We each pick out our favourites, and even purchase a couple of prints for their bedrooms. Days later we’ll still be discussing why the drone shot of the landfill was so alarming, and how we didn’t know that tadpoles would eat a baby bird carcass.

All exhibitioned out, we eventually admit defeat and, with tired legs and hunger brewing, head back to the train. We share lunch over a carriage table and discuss the highlights of the trip.

With young children, the train becomes part of the adventure, and I feel that I’ve made a savvy parenting choice, giving my partner and me a chance to squeeze in a few more hours with the children before they return to the busy-ness of school.

Beyond that, we avoided the headache of where to park, the stress of traffic, and made sure there was one less car on the roads that day. A success on all fronts, if you ask me.

Find out more by visiting I came by train, a collective movement supported by Trainline to help fight climate change