Snail in Space by Rachel Bright, illustrated by Nadia Shireen, Simon & Schuster, £7.99

Gail is determined to be the first snail on the moon in this inspiringly bonkers tale of a bold little mollusc with unstoppable dreams. A lively, humorous collaboration from two picture-book stars.

Confetti by Dean Atta, illustrated by Alea Marley, Orchard, £12.99

Renowned poet Dean Atta’s first picture book is an inclusive and quietly joyous celebration of colour, love and the high points of family life – a birthday, a Pride parade, a baby’s arrival, an uncle’s marriage – enhanced by Marley’s soft, glowing illustrations.

I Love You More by Clare Helen Welsh, illustrated by Kevin and Kristen Howdeshell, Nosy Crow, £7.99

At bedtime, Mum tells little Rae how much she loves her – more than blue whales love to blow, even more than the stars in space – but Rae still gets the last word. Intricately textured wildlife illustrations heighten the flowing rhymes in this adorable picture book.

A Horse Called Now by Ruth Doyle, illustrated by Alexandra Finkeldey, Nosy Crow, £7.99

Soothing and gentle, the big horse Now reassures panicky rabbits and lambs that whatever fearsome predators might appear, “at the moment, all is well”, and that “even the wildest storms will end” in time. This thoughtful story stands out among recent “mindfulness” picture books.

Donut Feed the Squirrels by Mika Song, Pushkin, £8.99

Adventurous squirrel chums Norma and Belly would do anything for a fried treat from the food truck, much to the annoyance of the doughnut seller in this simple, charming, hilariously energetic graphic novel for four or 5+.

Sidney and Carrie Have a Party by Lisa Thompson, illustrated by Jess Rose, Barrington Stoke, £6.99

When two best pals set out to plan a joint birthday party, quarrels and hurt feelings soon result – Sidney wants tiger decorations, Carrie wants frogs, and can they ever agree on a cake? A gorgeous little early reader for 5+, filled with friendship, fighting and figuring out how to compromise, with lush full-colour illustrations.

skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to Bookmarks Free weekly newsletter Discover new books with our expert reviews, author interviews and top 10s. Literary delights delivered direct you Enter your email address Sign up Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion

View image in fullscreen Photograph: PR

Pablo and Splash by Sheena Dempsey, Bloomsbury, £8.99

This irresistibly funny graphic novel for 7+ features two penguins attempting a tropical getaway, a rogue time-travelling robot and a beachful of dinosaurs. It’s the relationship between worrywart Pablo and cheerful, insouciant Splash that’s the real star here, kicking off a new series perfect for fans of Bunny vs Monkey.

The Shape of Rainbows by Neal Zetter, illustrated by Will Hughes, Otter-Barry, £8.99

An inventive, entertaining collection of poems for seven or 8+, woven through with wordplay (“So furry / So purry / So cinnamon whirly”) and ideal for reading and performing aloud, especially in the classroom.

Charlotte Brontë’s Jane Eyre, abridged by Patrice Lawrence, Walker, £7.99

Lawrence’s pared-back, heartfelt retelling distils the richness and drama of Brontë’s masterpiece into a 9+ novel that’s both satisfying in its own right and a springboard to the original. Her introduction also touches briefly on the book’s treatment of mental health and people of colour; a subtle nudge to young readers to think critically, even as they “wallow in Charlotte Brontë’s gorgeous language”.

Countdown to Yesterday by Shirley Marr, Usborne, £7.99

James isn’t doing well with the present; his parents have split up, and getting used to two homes is disorienting and sad. He dreams of returning to the past, especially memories of his family all together. But can Yan, the unusual new girl at school, make his dream a reality? A poignant, hopeful novel for 9+, laced with complex, comic ideas of time travel and perception.

The Creatures of Kilburn Mine by Dan Smith, Barrington Stoke, £7.99

When a meteorite lands near Crooked Oak, Krish, Pete and Nancy are fascinated – as is their physics teacher, Mr Berring. But Mr Berring’s interest leads them all into terrifying danger in this scarily compelling sci-fi story for 9+, featuring a dark mine and a gruesome means of mind control.

City of Spies by Iszi Lawrence, Bloomsbury, £7.99

It’s 1780 and 12-year-old Aiden Blaise is apprenticed to a New York printer, desperate to make his fortune and do his English family proud. He isn’t worried about the rebel colonies – how can they contend with King George’s redcoats? When Aiden is drawn into a web of secret messages and potentially deadly misinformation, though, he realises the conflict may be more complex than he thought in this compellingly evocative and fast-paced historical fiction novel for 9+.

Northern Soul by Phil Earle, Barrington Stoke, £7.99

When new girl Carly appears at school, 14-year-old Marv – previously interested only in football – falls instantly in love. But Marv has no idea how to talk to girls, or anyone to learn from. Enter a kebab-eating, unexpectedly northern incarnation of love god Otis Redding, whose advice will turn Marv into a ladies’ man overnight – or will it? A mortifyingly hilarious coming-of-age story for 12+, from a much-loved author.

Goddess Crown by Shade Lapite, Walker, £8.99

Minor royal Kalothia has been brought up in a remote village, believing her parents to be in hiding from the King of Galla. When her adopted family is killed, however, she is drawn into the poisonous, patriarchal world of the Gallan court, where she discovers she has a greater role to play – if she can survive to play it. Convincing, intricate world-building and strong characterisation add up to a standout YA fantasy debut with a powerful feminist slant.

The Invocations by Krystal Sutherland, Hot Key, £8.99

Five women have been killed, with terrifying similarities between their deaths. Three girls unite to track down their killer, each with a dark agenda of her own. Rich, handsome, cursed Jude, who needs her soul untethered from the demon who’s slowly killing her; diligent Zara, who needs a necromancer to bring her sister back from the dead; and Emer the cursewriter, whose clients are being murdered one by one. This furious, seductive 14+ horror-fantasy will appeal to fans of Holly Black and Melissa Albert.