Where did your interest in nutrition sprout from?

It started in my late teens – I realised the positive impact food was having on my body when I began making healthier changes to my diet. This inspired me to further my knowledge by studying for a master’s degree in clinical nutrition, followed by a postgraduate certificate in advanced nutrition science, and then going on to publish research in academic journals. Nutrition has preventative powers for physical and mental health, and I’m passionate about spreading that message.

What’s the big deal about gut health?

I see the gut as the engine of the body. You may not know, but the digestive system actually starts in the mouth – from which food will pass down the GI tract and make its way through the small then large intestines. The “gut microbiome” is the term for the assortment of beneficial microbiota that extract important nutrients. If your gut health is suffering, then the “friendly” bacteria will be sluggish in working their magic – which extends to all the key processes such as the gut-brain axis, which is vital for both cognitive function and elevating mood.

Tell us about Holland & Barrett’s Plant Points system?

It’s based off a big study called the American Gut Project, which showed that those who consumed 30 or more different plants a week had a better proportion of beneficial bacterial strains in their guts. That sounds like a daunting target to hit – so at Holland & Barrett we’ve fused the science with a practical solution and come up with Plant Points. Just like getting your five a day, we’ve made it really simple for people to add in greater diversity on to their plate. We’ve split kitchen staples into whole foods (one point), powdered foods (half a point) and herbs and spices (a quarter of a point). For example, one almond is one plant point. Meanwhile almond flour – the processing of which reduces the fibre content – is half a point. The key is that you eat different types of plants – having a red apple and a green apple still only counts as one point.

Why are plants so important?

It’s important to note that it isn’t just about fruit and vegetables – there are also seeds, whole grains, nuts, legumes and pulses. Plants are so essential to the gut because they come packed with fibre – and different fibres promote the growth of different beneficial bacteria. They also contain “phytonutrients” – responsible, for instance, for the bright-red colour of tomatoes. Then there’s the fact that plant-based foods tend to have lower energy density, meaning reduced overall calorie consumption and a higher chance of a healthy body mass index (BMI) – important for the number and diversity of beneficial bacterial strains.

How can customers boost their gut health with food?

The key is variety. When building every meal, consider whether you are munching on a fruit, a seed, a legume, a pulse and a whole grain. Take porridge, for example, one of the most consumed breakfasts in the UK. You can add flaxseed, berries, chopped apple and cinnamon to make it five Plant Points straight away. At lunch, swap your regular brown bread for a multi-seed loaf and add things like sauerkraut, coleslaw and carrots. In the evening, dine on a bean pasta, mixed in with tofu and – my favourite product – Holland & Barrett’s Eight Plant Pasta Sauce (eight Plant Points).

What do you do for your own gut?

I consume gut-friendly foods such as kimchi, kefir and kombucha every day, and will take probiotic supplements if I’m ill or travelling. However, my biggest focus is on fibre-rich items, and also getting plenty of dietary variety. In addition to nutrition, I’ll prioritise consistent sleep-wake times, and exercise in a “Goldilocks zone” – too little movement and the gut gets stagnant, while too much can spike the stress hormone cortisol, which can throw off the balance of good and bad bacteria.

For a science-backed gut-health plan that’s tailored to you, book a free 45-minute online appointment with one of our qualified, professional nutritionists at hollandandbarrett.com. (For a limited time, normally £45)