Overview

Shares

The world's most famous tennis Grand Slam

Join us to experience the excitement of one of the most prestigious sporting events of the British summer over the final weekend. On this great-value break, you'll enjoy all the action, as No.1 Court's retractable roof means you're guaranteed a great day of tennis, whatever the weather. Spend two nights in a comfortable hotel with return transfers to The Championships for your reserved seat on No.1 Court. Savour the unique atmosphere of the hallowed grounds and outside courts, enjoy the taste of strawberries and cream (and even a glass of champagne or Pimms), and soak up the energy of the crowds gathered on the slopes of Henman Hill. No.1 Court matches generally showcase the stars of tomorrow and yesteryear in the finals of the Junior and Invitation events on the final Saturday and Sunday. On the final Friday the No.1 Court Order Of Play normally includes some of the semi-finals of the main doubles competitions (however, please be aware that all schedules are at the discretion of The Championships Referee, and could be subject to change at short notice). You can wander the grounds and outside courts at your leisure and perhaps watch some of the Centre Court action on the big screen on Henman Hill. Newmarket Holidays has been officially appointed by The Championships Wimbledon for the sale of No.1 Court tickets. All images © AELTC 2018

An exciting full day of tennis action, including return transfers between your hotel and Wimbledon, and the services of a tour manager

Access to the surrounding grounds, outside courts and the lively Henman Hill

Opportunities to immerse yourself in the energy of the crowds, spot tennis players, celebrities and well-known TV personalities

Reserved seats on No.1 Court with its retractable roof - guaranteed play whatever the weather!

Gallery

Highlights and Inclusions Return coach transfers from the hotel to Wimbledon

Two nights' bed and continental breakfast accommodation

A reserved seat on No.1 Court

The services of a friendly Newmarket Holidays tour manager

Itinerary Day

Day 1 Make your own way to your hotel and check-in, this evening can be spent at your leisure. Day

Day 2 Following breakfast, you’ll depart by coach for Wimbledon, arriving at the Championships mid-morning. Spend the rest of the day enjoying the action of the world's foremost tennis tournament at your leisure. No.1 Court matches generally showcase the stars of tomorrow and yesteryear in the finals of the Junior and Invitation events on the final Saturday and Sunday. On the final Friday the No.1 Court Order Of Play normally includes some of the semi-finals of the main doubles competitions (however, please be aware that all schedules are at the discretion of The Championships Referee, and could be subject to change at short notice). You can wander the grounds and outside courts at your leisure and perhaps watch some of the Centre Court action on the big screen on Henman Hill. A coach will be on hand to transfer you back to your hotel (expected to depart Wimbledon at 7pm) for a second night. Day

Day 3 After a leisurely breakfast and a relaxed morning, check out of the hotel and make your own way home.