In just a few months’ time, this year’s cohort of freshers will be packing their bags, saying farewell to friends and family and embarking on university life. So, as the big day approaches, what should they be doing to prepare?

Getting organised and doing some low-level admin and research can be a worthwhile use of time. We asked students, with the benefit of hindsight, and students’ union representatives about their tips for preparing for university, and what they wished they’d known beforehand.

Get in touch with acquaintances who are going to the same uni

Although university is a fresh start, it can be reassuring to reach out in advance to anyone you know who is heading there too – even if it’s just your friend’s mum’s second cousin. Maya Kateli, a third-year politics, philosophy and economics student at the University of Warwick, says the first few weeks can be quite lonely, so in those down times it can be handy to meet up with anyone you already know.

Check out any useful online groups

Joining student groups online beforehand can make you feel part of the community. “I stand by the fact that Facebook is really outdated … but for uni it’s really important,” says Emily Turvey, faculty officer for humanities at the University of Manchester students’ union. “Student groups on there are really helpful,” she says, giving the example of the Manchester students’ group which has 73,000 members. Users often share useful nuggets of local information, such as public transport updates, or a heads-up about an estate agent to be avoided, for example.

Prepare for your studies

Now is also a good time to start getting organised for the academic side. Saoirse Jackson, a second-year environment and development student at the London School of Economics, advises prospective students to learn how to take notes and decide whether they’ll be doing this by hand, or use note-taking tools such as OneNote or Notion. Familiarise yourself with the software over the summer.

Consider what support you might need

Remember that there’s a big difference between further education and higher education, with university students expected to be more self-driven. Raven Pratt, head of student services at Brunel University, advises thinking about what support you might need and finding out how to access it. “School will approach a child saying you need a meeting, but at uni it’s the students’ decision to reach out. Whether it’s academic or disability support, you’ll need to initiate it.”

View image in fullscreen Charity shops can be a great source of homeware with personality. Photograph: Frank van Delft/Getty Images/Image Source

Decide what to take with you to university

Feeling connected to home is an obvious way to help you settle in. Halls can be dreary, so make your room look and feel welcoming. Take pictures, comfy cushions and a plant – and immediately it will feel much brighter. Start gathering the things you’ll need, such as cooking equipment. “Ask family and friends if they have anything extra and go through your cupboards at home for unused crockery,” says Alice Randall, a third-year student at Manchester Metropolitan University, who recommends looking in charity shops for nice plates, baking trays or saucepans. Randall borrowed a mug from her grandparents’ house. “It’s the china that they use, so it’s a nice reminder of home, rather than the plain white ones from the supermarket. It’s cheaper and fun to curate your own collection of things.”

Research clubs and societies

Over the summer, consider what clubs you might want to join, as there’s likely to be a huge choice. If you have a passion already, bring it to uni with you. Aashna Dwyer, a first-year chemistry student at Warwick, says: “My biggest advice is to continue your hobbies at uni. I’m really into cosplay, which is a kind of weird and embarrassing interest to have, but when you come to uni it’s a much bigger pool of people and there will be so many others who share your hobbies.”

View image in fullscreen Explore your new place by bike to find out all it has to offer. Photograph: Uwe Krejci/Getty Images

Get to know your new place

Research the place that you’re moving to and what exists outside of the student bubble. Often in student towns and cities everything is condensed into an area, like a village you never leave. To experience your new home beyond the uni campus, get confident exploring by bicycle, research nearby beaches or walks, and look up upcoming gigs or cafes in other parts of town. Remember that concession prices are available for most theatres and cinemas. Consider a dance class or running club somewhere else in the city, or volunteer in the local community.

Above all, just be yourself and be open to new experiences. “Most people would look back and think you just need to say ‘yes’ more and take yourself a bit less seriously at the beginning,” says Turvey. “It can be hard to visualise being there and you won’t know what it’s like until you actually move, so just go with the flow.”

Jackson agrees: “Don’t overthink it. It always works out in the end.”

And some other useful tips

Make the most of student discounts and get these organised in advance. A student art pass for £10 a year will give you free or half-price access to exhibitions and galleries, and a railcard will save you money travelling to and from university.

Follow the social media feeds for any clubs or societies you like the look of. See how active they are and who else is joining.

Learn how to touch-type. Courses online are free and quick to use, and will get you ahead in lectures. Ten minutes a day can be enough.

If you plan to cycle at university, make sure you feel safe riding on roads. Look into free local training sessions to improve your confidence.

Take an airing rack. Most campuses don’t have washing lines and tumble dryers are pricey.

For more guidance on the right course for you, check out the Guardian university league tables for 2023. The Guardian league tables for 2024 will be out on 9 September in print and online.

For more helpful advice and student news sent straight to your inbox, sign up to the Guardian’s student newsletter.