A week of hearings in the UN’s top court has opened on the legal consequences of Israel’s occupation of Palestinian territories, with more than 50 states due to address the judges.

The Palestinian foreign minister, Riyad al-Maliki, will speak first in the legal proceedings at the international court of justice (ICJ) in The Hague.

In 2022, the UN general assembly asked the court for an advisory opinion on the occupation.

The hearings will be held until 26 February, after which the judges are expected to take several months to deliberate before issuing their judgment.

While Israel has ignored such opinions in the past, it could increase political pressure over its war in Gaza, which has killed about 29,000 Palestinians, according to Gaza health officials, since 7 October 2023.

Among countries scheduled to participate in the hearings are the US, China, Russia, South Africa and Egypt. Israel will not, although it has sent written observations.

The hearings are part of a Palestinian push to get international legal institutions to examine Israel’s conduct, which has become more urgent since the 7 October attacks by Hamas in Israel, which killed 1,200 people, and Israel’s military response.

They also come amid mounting concerns about an Israeli ground offensive against the city of Rafah, a last refuge for more than 1 million Palestinians after they fled to the south of the enclave to avoid Israeli assaults.

Israel captured the West Bank, Gaza and East Jerusalem – areas of historic Palestine that the Palestinians want for a state – in the six-day war of 1967. It withdrew from Gaza in 2005, but, along with neighbouring Egypt, still controls the enclave’s borders.

It is the second time that the general assembly has asked the ICJ, also known as the world court, for an advisory opinion related to the occupied Palestinian territory.

In July 2004, the court found that Israel’s separation wall in the West Bank violated international law and should be dismantled, though it still stands.

Judges have been asked to review Israel’s “occupation, settlement and annexation … including measures aimed at altering the demographic composition, character and status of the holy city of Jerusalem, and from its adoption of related discriminatory legislation and measures”.

Since 1967, Israel has greatly expanded Jewish settlements in the West Bank, which Palestinians say compromises the creation of a viable Palestinian state. It has also annexed East Jerusalem in a move not recognised by most countries.

The general assembly also asked the ICJ’s 15-judge panel to advise on how those policies and practices “affect the legal status of the occupation”, and to consider what legal consequences arise for all countries and the UN from this status.

The advisory opinion proceedings are separate from the genocide case that South Africa filed at the court against Israel for its alleged violations in Gaza of the 1948 genocide convention. In late January, the ICJ in that case ordered Israel to do everything in its power to prevent acts of genocide in Gaza.

The outcome of the advisory opinion would not be legally binding but would carry “great legal weight and moral authority”, according to the ICJ.