SIERRA NEVADA & GRANADA

Our first Exodus trip, but on the strength of this trip, not our last! Every aspect of the holiday exceeded our expectations. A good deal of attention had been paid to the details, and it showed - everything went like clockwork. We felt very well looked-after throughout.

What was the most inspirational moment of your trip? So many highlights... seeing a Golden Eagle soaring above the mountains, walking through varied and beautiful scenery, learning a little about the history and culture of this fascinating region.

What did you think of your group leader? Jeremy was superb in every way. He had designed the walks to be suitable for a wide range of abilities, and to provide a wide variety of scenery and terrain. Every day he briefed us about what the practicalities would be - whether we'd be able to re-fill water bottles en route etc. The pace of the walks seemed to be fine for everyone in the group. He was very knowledgeable about the history and culture of the area, and was able to enrich the walks with anecdotes and useful information about the villages and countryside we passed through. He was very good at what he was doing, and a thoroughly nice bloke too. I can't praise him highly enough.

Do you have any advice for potential travellers? Just Do It. We were thoroughly glad we'd chosen this trip for our first Exodus holiday. It's a lovely region ideal for outdoor pursuits, and I'd imagine there's something for most people to enjoy, whether you're into history, wildlife or just enjoying the walking.The pace and length of the walks was generally relaxed, but the terrain added a degree of challenge. There were a lot of fairly steep climbs and descents over rocky terrain, plenty of spiky vegetation, and some muddy patches where the path followed streams. Nothing too extreme, but definitely not suitable for sandals... boots required, really. We found walking poles very helpful. Some days we needed to take water for the whole day, and when we went (early Sep) it was pretty hot, so we needed to drink plenty - so take a couple of big bottles or (probably preferably) a Camelback-type system. I wouldn't have been without a good sunhat, too, as shade could be hard to come by at some points. The village where we were based (Berchules) was pleasant and the hotel very friendly and comfortable, but the village is small and quiet. If you're planning to take a rest day, you'll need a book or something to occupy yourself as you probably won't be hitting the shops...A small tip for book fans.. read Chris Stewart's 'Driving Over Lemons' before you go.