Overview

Shares

Save up to 15%. Book up until midnight on 15 March 2024, T&Cs apply. No discount code is required.

Discover some of Europe's most popular holiday destinations, Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, and Montenegro, on this marvellous two-centre holiday. Spend three nights on the sweeping, sun-kissed reaches of the Markarska Riviera, and four more close to walled Dubrovnik, relaxing in comfortable hotels or exploring your surroundings on our included tours. Visit vibrant Split and the walled, island-city of Trogir, take a trip to Croatia's beautiful Krka National Park, see Mostar's famous bridge and explore Montenegro - one of Europe's most beautiful and unspoilt countries.

Discover Roman Split, Croatia's second city

Visit the walled island-city of Trogir, the centre of which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site

Seek out the natural splendours of Krka National Park

Explore Dubrovnik, the Pearl of the Adriatic

Experience breathtakingly beautiful Montenegro

See southern Europe's largest "fjord", the Bay of Kotor

Gallery

Highlights and Inclusions Seven nights' dinner, bed and breakfast accommodation at a four-star hotel in Drvenik (3 nights) and a three-star hotel on the Dubrovnik Riviera (4)

Split and Trogir excursion

Krka National Park excursion

Tour of Montenegro, the Bay of Kotor and Budva

Visit to Mostar and a guided tour of Dubrovnik

Return flights to Dubrovnik

Comfortable, air-conditioned coach travel and transfers

The services of a friendly, experienced tour manager

Itinerary Day

Day 1 Fly from the UK to Dubrovnik, meet your tour manager, then follow the scenic route north to your hotel in Drvenik, a coastal town on the shores of the Adriatic. Once there, get to know your surroundings and spend a first evening on the shores of the Adriatic, perhaps enjoying a nightcap under the stars. Depending on the arrival time of your flight, you may be taken into the nearby resort of Cavtat for two to three hours free time while you wait for other passengers to arrive on later flights. Day

Day 2 On today’s included tour you’ll head, first, to Croatia’s historic, vibrant second city Split. Here highlights include a wondrous, colourful, bustling old Town and the crumbling ruins of the palace of Roman Emperor Diocletian. You’ll then discover the walled, island-town of Trogir, one of the most enticing settlements on the whole Croatian coast. Cross to the island over a bridge and through the Land Gate, and enter a time-warped jumble of palaces, ancient churches and hidden courtyards, now lined with restaurants, cafés and a variety of shops, but where the sense of times past is never quite overcome. See the Romanesque cathedral, and wander the narrow streets and seafront promenade. Day

Day 3 Today's tour takes you to the tumbling waterfalls, deep gorges and picturesque lakes of beautiful Krka National Park, which stretches some 12 miles up a lavendar-clad valley from the delightful harbour-town of Skradin with its stone-built houses and colourful waterfront. Stroll along wooden walkways though the verdant surrounding forest at your own pace, and discover a park that previous customers have called "indescribably beautiful". Day

Day 4 Leaving Drvenik, after breakfast this morning, you’ll journey south past the River Neretva delta – a wildlife paradise home to several endangered bird species – on the way to Bosnia-Herzegovina and historic Mostar, where the most famous landmark is the lovingly restored medieval bridge that spans the river there. After the opportunity to explore this colourful, UNESCO-listed town, which boasts one of Europe’s oldest continuously trading markets, you’ll continue to your beautifully located second hotel, where dinner will be served. Day

Day 5 As a memorable day unfolds, you'll get to know stunning Dubrovnik, the incomparable Pearl of the Adriatic. Explore its captivating, medieval old town and perhaps walk the ancient city walls, upon which you'll find views stretching out over the red-roofed buildings to the sea beyond. Join our guided walking tour to see the medieval old town, its pedestrianised central street Stradun running from the Pile Gate to busy Luza Square and overlooked by the carved stone façade of the impressive Sponza Palace and graceful, Baroque St Blaise’s Church. Other highlights will include the Franciscan Monastery, and the Rector’s Palace, seat of the government in the former Dubrovnik Republic. The energetic can walk the entirety of the city walls, while others can take a seat in one of the city's many pavement cafés and relax before returning to the hotel. Day

Day 6 Our last included excursion takes you south to the breathtakingly beautiful country of Montenegro. Here, some of the Mediterranean’s most stunning beaches, deep luxuriant pine forests and some enchanting, preserved medieval settlements nestled against a backdrop of high mountains criss-crossed by crystal-clear glacial streams. See the spectacular Bay of Kotor, Southern Europe’s largest fjord, and stop to explore the UNESCO World Heritage site of Kotor itself, and its ancient old town. Visit Budva, one of the oldest settlements in the Adriatic and now a picturesque and thriving holiday resort boasting beautiful beaches, and picture-postcard surroundings, before returning to your hotel in time for dinner. Day

Day 7 Enjoy a final day’s rest and relaxation, perhaps returning to Dubrovnik’s enthralling streets once more, or even taking to the blue waters of the Adriatic that lap the shore. Secluded rocky coves and several tiny beaches provide places for swimming, and there are also opportunities to try even more energetic pursuits on the water. This evening, enjoy a farewell dinner at your hotel and a last balmy Croatian evening. Day

Day 8 Bid farewell to Croatia, and transfer to the airport to check in for your flight home at the end of a wonderful holiday.