As a nation, we can’t get enough of dramas that explore the psychological complexity of crime.

When the finale of Happy Valley screened earlier this year, 7.5 million people tuned in to see Sgt Catherine Cawood (played by Sarah Lancashire) confront her nemesis Tommy Lee Royce (James Norton). Line of Duty, Broadchurch and Luther are among other series that have proved hugely popular with viewers. No wonder university courses such as criminology and psychology have become so popular, as students look to turn their fascination into a career. For those who see their future as the next Sgt Cawood, there are even specialist policing degrees that can be the first step to becoming a constable.

At The University of Law, for example, students on the professional policing course learn about topics such as responding to major and critical incidents, counter-terrorism and public protection. Criminology students might explore areas such as drugs and cybercrime, and can go on to work as scene of crime officers, join the probation service, or pursue further study to become a solicitor or barrister. And psychology graduates come away with critical psychological skills, knowledge and values.

Alex Iszatt worked as a crime scene investigator (CSI) for almost five years for the Warwickshire police after graduating with a degree in criminology and psychology. “Becoming a CSI was my dream – it was all I’d wanted to do from childhood. I’ve always been really interested in why crime happened,” she says. She’s since pivoted to work as an expert behavioural criminologist, recently featuring in the documentary series, Cops Who Kill. But she says she loved the problem-solving aspect of being a CSI and taking control of a crime scene.

View image in fullscreen Crime scene investigation focuses on collecting evidence and understanding the offender’s movements. Photograph: mladenbalinovac/Getty Images

“Essentially it’s about collecting evidence. You have to follow exact methodologies and be very analytical – you’re thinking about how did the offender get in, how did they get out? What could they have left? What items do I need to remove? You have to pay attention, and be open-minded. There’s the added responsibility of someone potentially getting off if you don’t do your job right. That can be a heavy weight to carry. Sometimes the job can be a bit mundane, or it can be frustrating if the Crown Prosecution Service decides to not take a case forward. It’s nothing like it’s shown on TV.”

Forensic psychology is another field that, experts say, differs from the way it’s portrayed on the small screen. Kerry Daynes has been working as a forensic psychologist for more than three decades, writing two books about her experiences. The majority of forensic psychologists work in prisons (although some will work in secure hospitals), she says. Day-to-day, the job revolves around client assessments, running behavioural programmes, or working to ensure the safety of inmates. “It can be a hard slog – there are a lot of inmates and not a lot of psychologists,” she says. “You’ll be dealing with everyone from shoplifters and people with substance abuse histories to violent criminals and people with terrible histories of trauma. And you’ll spend an awful lot of time at your desk writing reports.”

Daynes recommends students get experience in a forensic environment before deciding whether it’s the right career for them. In her case, she volunteered as an appropriate adult for the charity Barnardo’s while at university “which was fascinating because I could sit in on police interviews”, and also worked on a project encouraging victim and offender mediation. After graduating, she volunteered as an unpaid assistant at HMP Wakefield.

View image in fullscreen Forensic psychologists tend to work in prisons, working on behavioural programmes or sitting in on police interviews. Photograph: Rawpixel/Getty Images/iStockphoto

In terms of the types of people best suited to the profession, she says that curiosity is key, but that authenticity and humbleness are also important. “You have to stay curious about the person you’re working with and what lies underneath that iceberg of offending; to see the humanity that lies beneath the inhumane act.”

While she doesn’t do much prison work any more, she says that being a forensic psychologist in such an environment can be incredibly rewarding. “It’s emotionally draining work. But when you really make a connection with somebody and you’ve made a difference in their life … that’s always a career highlight.”

At The University of Law, John McKeown is one of the careers consultants helping students navigate their route after graduation. He recently helped the latest cohort of policing graduates progress on to roles in police forces around Britain, including one who joined the detective constable pathway with the City of London police.

Students taking courses such as policing, criminology and psychology can often have an idea of the route they want to take, he says. “We try to help people identify their goals and put practical steps in place to achieve them. Some careers are competitive to get into, so it’s important to be able to break it down and say: ‘This is what you’ve got to do. This is what it will take.’

“These are all people-related careers, so having good communication skills, personal resilience and the ability to problem-solve and think on your feet are useful. Also, respect for diversity because you’re dealing with all cross-sections of society.”

Find out more about degrees in policing, criminology and psychology at The University of Law