When it comes to re-entering the workplace after a substantial time away, many people find themselves struggling to get a job, returning to positions that no longer fit or taking more junior roles. Research suggests that, in the UK, women in particular (three in five women) end up in lower-skilled jobs, experiencing earning reductions of up to a third as a result.

But some employers are starting to recognise the challenge – and the talented potential recruits they might be missing out on. Global bank Citi is one employer attempting to encourage and support valued employees back into the workplace after a career break, with its Reactivate Your Career programme, set up to support experienced professionals back to work following a break of two years or more. (The programme initially began as a pilot in London in 2020, before expanding to Belfast and, due to its success, is currently operating in 13 locations globally.) And while candidates with banking experience are welcomed, many are new to the finance world altogether.

The 18-month initiative – which won the most successful returners strategy award at the Women in Banking and Finance awards in 2022 – is designed to help participants re-skill in new areas and includes both on-the-job experience and tailored learning, resulting in new qualifications relevant to the job. At the end of the programme, participants are eligible to be considered for a full-time permanent position at Citi – currently 89% of all participants remain at the bank.

Victoria Laughton, who joined Citi having previously worked as an architect: ‘We’re producing a product … rather than a building. It’s exactly the same process.’

Former architect Victoria Laughton was part of the programme’s very first cohort in London in 2020. Her career break spanned five years, following the birth of her second child. “After my son was born, I decided not to return to work because of the cost of childcare – it just didn’t seem worthwhile financially,” she says. When she did begin considering her options, the idea of moving industries occurred to her. “I’d never considered changing industries until that point. I’d studied architecture, even doing an additional master’s degree, so very much saw myself as an architect.

“But taking time out helped me realise my skills were very transferable. I’d always been interested in technology – for my master’s, I did a thesis on data – and when I came across the Citi scheme, the role of UX [user experience] designer piqued my interest.”

Laughton was surprised to find the two industries weren’t as different as she’d first imagined. “As an architect I was part of a design team and as a UX designer I’m in a design team too. The difference is, we’re producing a product – in our case, systems used by clients and employees – rather than a building. It’s exactly the same process.” Now approaching her four-year anniversary with Citi, she’s pleased she took the initial leap.

“The job has not only given me opportunities to expand my horizons, but I’ve gained knowledge and have become part of a team again, which I love. Joining as part of a cohort meant meeting others in similar situations and supporting each other in resolving problems and achieving common goals.”

Swapping a successful media career for banking wasn’t something Nadine Neckles, who joined the Citi scheme in 2023 after a 10-year career break, would have predicted, either.

“Before taking time out, I worked as a project manager for Global radio. I was successful and really enjoyed my work, but after my daughter was born in 2012 with a rare condition called chromosome 18q syndrome and nystagmus, I was forced to leave the workplace altogether, becoming a parental carer for the next decade.”

View image in fullscreen Nadine Neckles: ‘Businesses are looking for people with diverse backgrounds like mine.’

Within that time, Neckles had a second child and became a special educational needs advocate, writing a book – Can I Tell You About Nystagmus? A Guide for Friends, Family and Professionals – on her daughter’s condition. It was only when her daughter began secondary school that she was able to consider re-entering the world of work.

“I was looking for a role that would be challenging but also support me back into the workplace because it had been such a sizeable time away. I was surprised at how long it was taking me to find something. I wouldn’t say I was underskilled – I’d completed courses and had even written a book – but the market proved to be very competitive.”

She spotted details of the programme on LinkedIn and it appealed immediately. “As well as hoping some of the skills I’d demonstrated as a parent might be transferable, I was excited at the prospect of working internationally and being able to really branch out. My world had been very small in recent years, so it was a great opportunity to expand.”

The application process was tough but encouraging. “The interviewers were open to the fact that I didn’t have a financial background – it was a ‘We’ll help you get there’ approach, looking instead at what I could bring to the table,” she says. Neckles now works as a project manager at Institutional Credit Management in London’s Canary Wharf, working within a team to redesign a set of products used throughout the bank, as well as working to obtain a data technician qualification.

“I remember standing on the train station platform that first week, thinking: ‘God, everybody’s in suits – I’d normally be on the school run now,’” she says. “Everything was new – from the terminology, to training and programmes. But almost immediately I felt a real sense of achievement. I think increasingly businesses are looking for people with diverse backgrounds like mine. It means that as a business we can not only better reflect what’s going on in society but challenge the way things have always been done, helping to provide the best we can for our clients.”

Laughton feels similarly: “It’s been a fantastic experience for me. Life-changing, in fact.”

Find out more about opportunities at Citi at jobs.citi.com