13h ago 21.16 GMT Stuart Heritage If you are still inexplicably hanging around reading a liveblog of an awards ceremony that has already been over for two hours at this point, I have good news! Here’s a red carpet gallery! You will have your favourite photograph of the night. Mine is the one of Ayo Edebiri standing in what I’m pretty sure is the exact same stairwell that my six-year-old had a meltdown in just before going to see the Bluey play a couple of months ago. Baftas 2024 red carpet: peek-a-boo corsets and a feast of salmon – in pictures Read more



13h ago 21.00 GMT Stuart Heritage And now a final montage of everything that has happened over the last two hours, which from a television standpoint was absolutely nothing. Nothing very funny happened. Nothing very shocking. No major upsets. No Ariana DeBose, which in retrospect I am quite sad about. The whole thing just sort of sat there, flat and featureless, and then stopped. Think of all the other things we could have just done with the last two hours of our lives. The fun we could have had. The friends we could have made. But oh no. We spent it watching the Baftas. Lucky us.



13h ago 20.56 GMT OPPENHEIMER WINS BEST FILM Stuart Heritage Just as it is very likely to win all the Oscars. Still, it gives Emma Thomas a chance to get some of the limelight for once, which is extremely well-deserved for such a power player. She schoolmarms the entire cast and crew up to the stage, and many of them stay sitting down. And then she thanks her 16-year-old son, and that’s it. Thats the end of the awards. View image in fullscreen Cillian Murphy, Christopher Nolan, Charles Roven and Emma Thomas accept the Best Film Award while Miachael J Fox looks on. Photograph: Kate Green/BAFTA/Getty Images for BAFTA

Updated at 21.02 GMT

13h ago 20.52 GMT Stuart Heritage Michael J Fox is here to present best film. Not just a standing ovation, but wild, untamed applause. He’s been greeted like such a hero that he will almost certainly outshine the actual winner.



13h ago 20.51 GMT EMMA STONE WINS BEST ACTRESS Stuart Heritage Poor Things has won a number of smaller (read: edited out) awards tonight, but this is the most high-profile. She thanks her dialect coach, and Tony McNamara for writing that line about how much she wants to punch a baby. And her mum. One more award to go! Nothing actually seems to have happened in the last two hours, does it? View image in fullscreen Emma Stone accepts her award. Photograph: Joe Maher/BAFTA/Getty Images for BAFTA

Updated at 21.03 GMT

13h ago 20.46 GMT Stuart Heritage And now Idris Elba is here, to present best actress and order all the famous people to applaud themselves, which is very nice of him.



13h ago 20.45 GMT CILLIAN MURPHY WINS BEST ACTOR Stuart Heritage Very sour reactions from his fellow nominees Barry Keoghan (who looked like he wanted to punch him) and Bradley Cooper (who looked like he wanted to trash the whole place), but Cillian Murphy rises to the occasion nonetheless. He’s happy to play someone complex and he loves his family, plus he says ‘Oppenhomies’ to keep the internet happy. View image in fullscreen Cillian Murphy accepts accepts his Leading Actor Award. Photograph: Kate Green/BAFTA/Getty Images for BAFTA

Updated at 21.00 GMT

14h ago 20.40 GMT Stuart Heritage More Less Important Awards now. The Zone of Interest wins something. Poor Things wins something. A film about Jellyfish wins something. A film about crabs wins something. Poor Things wins something else. Poor Things wins something else. And with all this hard work booted out of the way, it’s time for the last three awards of the night.



14h ago 20.37 GMT MIA MCKENNA-BRUCE WINS THE EE RISING STAR AWARD Stuart Heritage And this is a decent result, because this was a weirdly unbalanced category, with many of the nominees having already quite visibly risen. But McKenna-Bruce is an incredibly good choice.

Updated at 20.39 GMT

14h ago 20.32 GMT Stuart Heritage Morton takes the stage to a standing ovation, overwhelmed. The award is a miracle, she says. Kes changed her life, because it showed her poverty onscreen. She thanks casting directors, and Nottingham, and her family, and dedicates her award to children in care. What a beautiful, heartfelt speech. View image in fullscreen Samantha Morton with her award. Photograph: Kate Green/Bafta/Getty Images for Bafta

Updated at 20.37 GMT

14h ago 20.28 GMT Stuart Heritage Samantha Morton is now being given the Bafta fellowship. Tom Cruise is doing a video about how brilliant she was in Minority Report. Susan Lynch, too, but not specifically about Minority Report. And Molly Windsor. And Daniel Mays. And then Tom Cruise again. Hope this helps.

Updated at 20.29 GMT

14h ago 20.24 GMT Stuart Heritage We’re now being treated to the Less Important Awards. The Zone of Interest wins something, The Holdovers wins something. Oppenheimer wins something. Oppenheimer wins something else. 20 Days in Mariupol wins something. Oppenheimer wins something else. I don’t know whether this was a deliberate choice on the part of the BBC to chop down all the acceptance speeches that actually had something interesting to say about the world. But, hey, at least this gave us loads of room up top for all those dog puns.



14h ago 20.20 GMT CHRISTOPHER NOLAN WINS BEST DIRECTOR Stuart Heritage The overwhelming Oscar frontrunner wins a Bafta. Nolan reveals that his brother played a snowflake at the Southbank Centre 40 years ago, and then makes a point of speaking out for nuclear disarmament. Funny AND terrifying. What a guy. View image in fullscreen Christopher Nolan accepts the best director Bafta. Photograph: Kate Green/Bafta/Getty Images for Bafta

Updated at 20.22 GMT

14h ago 20.16 GMT Stuart Heritage Hugh Grant is here to present best director. He’s making up a satirical film industry poem about Oompa Loompas, and looking like he absolutely hates every second of it. Can we get him to host next year, please?

Updated at 20.24 GMT

14h ago 20.15 GMT THE ZONE OF INTEREST WINS OUTSTANDING BRITISH FILM Stuart Heritage Polite applause and minor whooping greet Jonathan Glazer and James Wilson. Wilson thanks everyone, and explains what a global project this was. Glazer mumbles ‘thanks’ and leaves.

Updated at 20.17 GMT