Taskmaster, series 13 (Channel 4)

It has to be Taskmaster. Every series has its highs, but after the last couple, which were filmed during Covid, felt a bit flat, series 13 is just pure joy. From counting shoes to ridiculous walking, Bridget Christie, Sophie Duker, Judie Love, Ardal O’Hanlon and Chris Ramsey have made our Thursday nights absolute bliss. It’s the only show we make sure we watch at the time it’s scheduled. Beth, teacher, Manchester

Why Didn’t They Ask Evans? (BritBox)

View image in fullscreen Witty and charming … Why Didn’t They Ask Evans? Photograph: Britbox

Hugh Laurie has done an incredible job as director of this Agatha Christie adaptation. The characters were perfectly cast, especially Lucy Boynton as Frankie. She plays the character with just the right amount of pluck and gumption. The script is witty and charming. Everything about it – the cast, scenery, music and the costumes – make it a pleasure to watch. Jenna, Leigh

This is Going to Hurt (BBC One)

This is Going to Hurt, written by Adam Kay, exceeded my expectations considering how much I loved the book. It was extremely well played by the whole cast. Ben Whishaw is spot-on as Adam, but the real surprise for me was Ambika Mod as Shruti – an amazing performance culminating in that episode, which completely blindsided me. Sterling stuff from all involved. Graham Vingoe, Barnstaple

Better Call Saul, season six (Netflix)

View image in fullscreen Masterful … Better Call Saul. Photograph: Greg Lewis/AMC/Sony Pictures Television

Without a shadow of a doubt, my favourite show of the year so far is Better Call Saul. Masterful acting and amazing scripts. The final scene in episode seven, what a shock! I can’t wait for the last five episodes, but I don’t want it to end. Jeff Craddock, Kenilworth

Derry Girls, series three (Channel 4)

Derry girls is not only laugh-out-loud funny, it’s fast, witty and clever. There are many strong female characters and not really a love interest in sight unless you include the wee English fella, and no one counts him! I love the family dynamic too; we can all see a bit of our mothers in Erin’s ma, and who doesn’t have an uncle Colm? But just when they have you, they throw in the pathos – whether it’s the peace process or the unexpected death of Clare’s da. All human life is there. Who doesn’t want to be in the Derry girls gang? Lorraine, Bournemouth

Top Boy, series four (Netflix)

View image in fullscreen Exhausting but exhilarating … Top Boy. Photograph: Netflix

Top Boy is exhausting but exhilarating viewing. I held off watching it until I had plenty of time because I knew that once I did, I’d have to binge it until the end. You just feel for the characters and their divisive relationships. It’s so emotional, so tense and always unpredictable. It’s the series that I don’t want to end, but need to recover from. Sara Potter, university librarian, Solihull

Severance (Apple TV+)

Severance is a show with a seemingly simple premise, with meaningful depth for anyone who is an employee battling to rectify their workplace persona and real-world identity. The show asks the audience to think about the value of the geographical workplace as a social hub, political battleground, and something unique to be valued by humans who are primarily social beings. Smaller themes of managing grief, family dynamics, and the everyday stress of living help the audience connect to the characters. Beautiful cinematography, almost rhythmic set revelations, and outstanding acting from the whole cast brings life to a dystopian corporate world. Craig Charnley, Brampton, Ontario

Pachinko (Apple TV+)

View image in fullscreen Familiar and new at the same time … Pachinko. Photograph: Juhan Noh/Apple TV+

The book was incredible, with a linear narrative structure that moved from generation to generation. The show takes many of those same storylines and works with flashbacks while keeping a good pace and adding new elements that weren’t in the original piece. It feels familiar and new at the same time. Dave, Toronto

The Responder (BBC One)

I can’t ever remember, other than during sporting events, shouting at the television – especially during a drama. This mini-series was absolutely gripping stuff. I didn’t like the characters at first, but they drew you in as they became more and more believable. The Responder takes your emotions to where you were both enthralled and appalled at the same time. A truly addictive television drama. Glen, Cheshire

Barry, season three (Sky Atlantic/Now)

We pay for Now TV just to access Bill Hader’s Barry in the UK and it’s totally worth it. He deserves acclaim for this subtly superb show, along with the dynamic cast including Anthony Carrigan as the loveable but psycho killer NoHo Hank, and Sarah Goldberg as the cosmically self-absorbed Sally Reed. Henry Winkler is also amazing as usual. It’s a show that merges erudite humour with a thrilling story of honour and stupidity. We love it. Billy, mental health nurse, Bedford

The Speedshop (BBC Two)

I know very little about building motorbikes but I loved this programme. Titch Cormack comes across as a genuinely nice guy, and the relationship he has with his mates and customers is wonderful to watch. The show gave a real feelgood presence to Sunday nights without being overly sentimental, all done with a gentle humour. It was beautifully shot too, resulting in a programme to equal Top Gear in its prime, without the egos. Jean Ellis, Lincoln

Winning Time: The Rise of the Lakers Dynasty (Sky Atlantic/Now)

View image in fullscreen Upbeat … Winning Time: The Rise of the Lakers Dynasty. Photograph: HBO

Winning Time: The Rise of the Lakers Dynasty, based on the true story of the LA basketball team in the 80s, is a truly character-based study of the fun, mess and the glory that was the Lakers. John C Reilly makes a very charismatic Jerry Buss, often breaking the fourth wall, and drawing the audience into his dream for the team. The show is upbeat and positive without being trite; a real joy to watch. Korolyn, London

Big Boys (Channel 4)

Big Boys is one of the funniest, most heartfelt and sensitive shows I’ve seen not just in 2022, but in recent years. Jack Rooke is such a talented writer. His ability to portray both the hilarity and the pain of grief, of life as a young queer person finding themselves, of mental illness, is unparalleled. The depth of love you have for all of the characters so quickly – even the irritating ones (!) – makes you really feel like everyone involved poured themselves into this show. I wept pretty consistently through the last two episodes. As a queer person living with depression, a lot of it is so close to the bone. But I can’t wait to spend more time in the company of these wonderful characters and laugh through the pain. Zoe, writer, London