When was the last time you listened to your gut? Having a “gut instinct” – or tapping into our own intuition – is one of the first ways we understand how we feel about a situation, and it even helps us make decisions. Historically, it’s been a practice used by everyone from Albert Einstein (“I believe in intuitions and inspirations. I sometimes feel that I am right. I do not know that I am.”) to Coco Chanel (“Fashion is in the air, born upon the wind. One intuits it.”), but in busy modern life, our gut is often drowned out by external forces – and by how we treat it.

Our gut is also an essential part of the well-oiled machine that is the human body. And in recent decades, research has increasingly uncovered relationships between dietary patterns, our gut and wider health. Nutritionist Jane Aherne says: “We are building up a pool of data and research that undeniably shows how the gut influences the whole body. This should be of no surprise as our body systems are all connected and all influence one another.”

We need to start with what we’re eating – less than a third of the UK population manages the recommended five portions of fruit and vegetables a day, and this poor diet affects our general health. But as almost two-thirds of Brits would like more support to help understand their gut health, it’s something we need to be talking about more – as well as how healthy diets and exercise can contribute to a happy gut.

Although there are broad-brush rules that can help the majority of people have happier guts, everybody’s gut health is ultimately a unique landscape, so seeking advice that’s tailored to you is a smart first step. Try popping into Holland & Barrett to speak to one of its in-store experts to get started on your gut health journey. Free, online 45-minute nutritionist consultations can be booked through its website. In-store, you can speak to one of Holland & Barrett’s trained advisers about any issues, if required. Staff will also be able to recommend gut-friendly supplements such as prebiotics and probiotics, as well as introducing the company’s Plant Points system, to help increase the amount of plants eaten in our diets. For any serious symptoms or specific medical issues, see a GP or your local medical practitioner.

“Everyone is unique with regards to what works for their gut and what their triggers are,” says Aherne. “We should be striving to take a personalised approach to supporting a healthy gut. A good starting place is arguably maintaining a healthy, varied wholefood diet, containing a reasonable level of variety.”

With this framework in place, here’s how some additional good gut habits can have a positive impact on three areas of wellness within our bodies:

Immune support

Our body’s defence system can be protected and strengthened by good gut health, says Aherne. “The trillions of various bacteria inside us are all part of our gut microbiome, and this collection of bacteria helps us digest and absorb nutrients in the gut and is essential for supporting a healthy immune system.”

View image in fullscreen Less than a third of the British population eats the recommended amount of fruit and vegetables. Photograph: Studio Firma/Stocksy United

However, this delicate microbiome can become unbalanced if we are eating foods with poor nutritional value. Aherne says: “The gut microbiome can be negatively influenced by multiple factors such as illnesses, antibiotics and other medications, and poor nutrition. The foods we eat can have a direct negative impact on the gut microbiome by causing imbalances and/or overgrowths of certain bacteria or fungi, which could eventually result in compromised immune function.

“Within the body we have something called the gut-associated lymphoid tissue, and this houses a large proportion of the body’s immune cells. Our microbiome helps to train and modulate these immune cells, helping us to distinguish between harmless substances and potential threats.

“A poor quality diet, and certain medications can all lead to imbalances within the digestive system, potentially opening us up to immunological imbalances, such as autoimmunity.”

How can we boost our microbiome? Eating foods such as natural yoghurt, kefir and kombucha is a good place to start, as is introducing a variety of fruits and vegetables. Eat foods high in fibre and minimise alcohol. This is all beneficial for creating a happy, healthy gut.

Cognitive function

Of course, there’s a literal link between the brain and the gut, but it goes deeper than just nerves and synapses. “The gut health’s impact on cognitive function, predominantly focuses on the gut-brain axis,” says Aherne, “a communication network linking our nervous system of the gut to the central nervous system. Emerging studies have shown the balance of microbes appears to be able to influence brain chemistry and behaviour.”

View image in fullscreen Getting a good night’s sleep helps contribute to good gut health. Photograph: Tanya Yatsenko/Stocksy United

Skin health

To shine from the outside, you need to shine from the inside first. “Much like the gut-brain axis, we also have a gut-skin axis,” says Aherne. “This interplay between our gut and skin is influenced by microbes, the immune system and inflammation levels.

Imbalances of microbes in the gut may contribute to inflammatory skin conditions. Skin conditions such as acne and rosacea have been linked to bacterial overgrowths in the gut, especially the small intestine. Microbial imbalances have also been linked with the transport of unwanted bacterial byproducts, known as endotoxins, from the bowel into general circulation causing inflammation.” Studies also show that gut bacteria such as Bifidobacterium, Proteobacteria and Enterobacteria can impact inflammation in inflammatory skin disorders.

Ultimately, caring for your gut health should be a holistic effort. Aherne suggests focusing on wholefoods that your body appears to tolerate well, adding: “Ensure you stay hydrated, prioritise sleep health and consider adding prebiotic and probiotic foods to your diet.” It’s food for thought for us all, really.

For a science-backed gut-health plan that’s tailored to you, book a free 45-minute online appointment with one of our qualified, professional nutritionists at hollandandbarrett.com. (For a limited time, normally £45)