From 38m ago 10.32 GMT Israel declares Brazil's president Lula 'persona non grata' over Gaza remarks it deems 'serious antisemitic attack' Israel has declared Brazil’s president Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva a “persona non grata” over comments he made in which he accused Israel of carrying out a genocide in Gaza which he compared to the actions of Adolf Hitler and the Holocaust. Having summoned Brazil’s ambassador for a reprimand, Israel’s foreign minister Israel Katz issued a statement saying: We will not forget nor forgive. It is a serious antisemitic attack. In my name and the name of the citizens of Israel – tell president Lula that he is persona non grata in Israel until he takes it back. Brazilian ambassador to Israel Frederico Meyer (R) looks on as Israeli foreign minister Israel Katz (L) delivers a statement declaring the Brazilian president “persona non grata” at the Yad Vashem Holocaust Memorial Museum in Jerusalem. Photograph: Abir Sultan/EPA At the weekend, Brazil’s president had said “what is happening in the Gaza Strip and to the Palestinian people hasn’t been seen in any other moment in history. Actually, it did when Hitler decided to kill the Jews. What’s happening in the Gaza Strip isn’t a war, it’s a genocide. It’s not a war of soldiers against soldiers. It’s a war between a highly prepared army and women and children.” Ahead of the diplomatic meeting this morning, senior political correspondent Lahav Harkov at the Jewish Insider had made these observations at how unusual the setting was, noting: [Katz is] doing a few unusual things: The reprimand will happen at Yad Vashem. Katz is doing it himself and not a foreign minister deputy director-general. Also, he invited the media to a statement immediately after. The statement is unusual in of itself, but it also means that photographers will be around to catch the ambassador leaving the reprimand. That’s the kind of thing that doesn’t necessarily seem like a big deal, but for diplomats, takes the reprimand up a level. Benjamin Netanyahu described the words as “shameful and alarming” and “a trivialization of the Holocaust”. This morning the health ministry in Gaza reported that over 29,000 Palestinians have been killed and more than 69,000 injured as a result of Israel’s military action within the Gaza Strip.



23m ago 10.46 GMT International Court of Justice resumes hearing into the 'policies and practices of Israel in the occupied Palestinian territory' The International Court of Justice hearing into the “policies and practices of Israel in the occupied Palestinian territory” is resuming. You can watch it here: ICJ holds public hearings on Israeli occupation of Palestinian territories – watch live In the first session, Palestinian Authority foreign minister Riyad al-Maliki demanded an immediate end to Israel’s occupation of the Palestinian territories. Al-Maliki accused Israel of subjecting Palestinians to decades of discrimination and apartheid arguing that they had been left with the choice of “displacement, subjugation, or death”. “The only solution consistent with international law is for this illegal occupation to come to an immediate, unconditional and total end,” Reuters reports he said. “The genocide under way in Gaza is a result of decades of impunity and inaction. Ending Israel’s impunity is a moral, political and legal imperative,” al-Maliki added. Israeli has in the past disputed that the territories are formally occupied on the basis that they were captured from Jordan and Egypt in 1967, and not from a sovereign Palestine. The court has previously found against Israel on the issue of the West Bank, declaring in 2004 that the barrier being built around the West Bank was illegal and should be pulled down, a ruling which Israel has ignored.



24m ago 10.45 GMT Benjamin Netanyahu’s office have confirmed that this morning Israel’s prime minister met US senators Chris Coons (Democratic party, Delaware) and Richard Blumenthal (Dem, Connecticut). Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu met today at the Prime Minister's Office in Jerusalem, with US Senators Chris Coons and Richard Blumenthal.



The Director of the National Security Council, the PM's Foreign Policy Adviser and the US Ambassador to Israel also attended the meeting pic.twitter.com/sJfG1LI0Y0 — Prime Minister of Israel (@IsraeliPM) February 19, 2024



34m ago 10.35 GMT Emanuel Fabian, who is military correspondent at the Times of Israel, has posted this picture of the site of the investigation into a reported fallen drone in northern Israel. An apparent drone or other projectile hit an open area near the community of Arbel in the Lower Galilee, close to the Sea of Galilee.



Police say officers are at the scene handling the incident.



Local authorities say there are no injuries. pic.twitter.com/2tVcEHRmxd — Emanuel (Mannie) Fabian (@manniefabian) February 19, 2024



38m ago 10.32 GMT Israel declares Brazil's president Lula 'persona non grata' over Gaza remarks it deems 'serious antisemitic attack' Israel has declared Brazil’s president Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva a “persona non grata” over comments he made in which he accused Israel of carrying out a genocide in Gaza which he compared to the actions of Adolf Hitler and the Holocaust. Having summoned Brazil’s ambassador for a reprimand, Israel’s foreign minister Israel Katz issued a statement saying: We will not forget nor forgive. It is a serious antisemitic attack. In my name and the name of the citizens of Israel – tell president Lula that he is persona non grata in Israel until he takes it back. View image in fullscreen Brazilian ambassador to Israel Frederico Meyer (R) looks on as Israeli foreign minister Israel Katz (L) delivers a statement declaring the Brazilian president “persona non grata” at the Yad Vashem Holocaust Memorial Museum in Jerusalem. Photograph: Abir Sultan/EPA At the weekend, Brazil’s president had said “what is happening in the Gaza Strip and to the Palestinian people hasn’t been seen in any other moment in history. Actually, it did when Hitler decided to kill the Jews. What’s happening in the Gaza Strip isn’t a war, it’s a genocide. It’s not a war of soldiers against soldiers. It’s a war between a highly prepared army and women and children.” Ahead of the diplomatic meeting this morning, senior political correspondent Lahav Harkov at the Jewish Insider had made these observations at how unusual the setting was, noting: [Katz is] doing a few unusual things: The reprimand will happen at Yad Vashem. Katz is doing it himself and not a foreign minister deputy director-general. Also, he invited the media to a statement immediately after. The statement is unusual in of itself, but it also means that photographers will be around to catch the ambassador leaving the reprimand. That’s the kind of thing that doesn’t necessarily seem like a big deal, but for diplomats, takes the reprimand up a level. Benjamin Netanyahu described the words as “shameful and alarming” and “a trivialization of the Holocaust”. This morning the health ministry in Gaza reported that over 29,000 Palestinians have been killed and more than 69,000 injured as a result of Israel’s military action within the Gaza Strip.



42m ago 10.28 GMT The Interational Court of Justice in The Hague is taking a break after hearing evidence about the legality and nature of Israeli occupation of the West Bank and East Jurasalem. It will reconvene in ten minutes.



48m ago 10.21 GMT Number of Palestinians killed in Gaza by Israeli action since 7 October rises about 29,000 – ministry The health ministry in Gaza has said the number of Palestinians killed in the territory by Israeli military action since 7 October has risen to 29,092. In the past 24 hours, 107 Palestinians were killed and 145 injured, Reuters reports the ministry said in its statement. 69,028 are reported injured in total. It has not been possible for journalists to independently verify casualty figures being issued during the conflict. View image in fullscreen Palestinian children walk past the rubble of a destroyed buildings in the Al Nusairat refugee camp in the southern Gaza Strip. Photograph: Mohammed Saber/EPA



53m ago 10.16 GMT Paul Reichler, at the International Court of Justice, has said that among the countries and organisations to submit written statements to the court, only Fiji and the US defend Israel. The US, he says, argues not that the occupation is lawful, but that it is “neither lawful or unlawful”.



1h ago 10.13 GMT Haaretz reports that a bomb squad is in attendance after a reported drone fell near the Sea of Galilee in northern Israel.



1h ago 10.09 GMT Law professor Andreas Zimmerman has addressed the capability of the International Court of Justice to hear the case over the “policies and practices of Israel in the occupied Palestinian territory”. In his section he stated that there are no compelling reasons for the court not to hear the case, as even if it has political considerations, the questions posed are also clearly of a legal nature. Paul Reichler is the next person to address the court. He is presenting evidence which he says indicates that Israel’s occupation is in violation of international law. He says “Israel’s 56-year occupation of Palestinian territory is manifestly and gravely unlawful and international law requires it be brought to an end completely and unconditionally” He argues that there is a clear set of legal obligations for states when temporarily occupying a territory. He says “what makes Israel’s occupation unlawful is precisely its permanent character”, citing statements by Israeli government ministers about expanding Israeli sovereignty permanently in areas of the West Bank, and the establishment of hundreds of permanent settlements within West Bank territory. He says it is quite clear that it has been the policy aim of successive Israeli governments to create a “single Jewish State extending from the Jordan River to the Mediterranean Sea”.



1h ago 09.56 GMT Lisa O'Carroll Annalena Baerbock, the German foreign minister, has again stressed her country’s position that Israel has the right to defend itself, albeit as long as it complies with international humanitarian law. But she has called for a humanitarian ceasefire. Speaking in Brussels this morning, she said: I just came back from Israel. I’ve been five times in the region, not only in Israel, [but also] in the [occupied] West Bank, in Jordan, in the Gulf countries, to make [it] very clear. For us it is of the highest importance that we come to peace in the Middle East. And this means we need a humanitarian ceasefire. We need the release of the hostages. We need Hamas to lay down its weapons. And we need the compliance of international humanitarian law by the reaction from Israel after the 7 October and their right of self-defence.”



2h ago 09.37 GMT At ICJ Palestinian Authority says it is a 'moral and legal obligation' to bring Israeli occupiation of West Bank to an end Riyad al-Maliki, representing the Palestinian Authority, has said that Israel is committing genocide in Gaza and has enforced a policy of apartheid against Palestinians for years, and that “allowing this to continue is unacceptable. It is a moral and legal obligation to bring it to a prompt end.” Addressing the International Court of Justice in The Hague, he said “Palestine was not a land without a people” and it had been subject to a decision made thousands of miles away over a hundred years ago – referring to the Balfour Declaration. He said that “for decades Palestinians have been denied” the right to self-determination. The court is now hearing argument from the Palestinian legal team about why it should find the case admissible and why the court has jurisdiction to rule on it.



2h ago 09.27 GMT Riyad al-Maliki has opened his statement in The Hague, telling the International Court of Justice he is proud to be there representing Palestine, and that his appearance comes as “2.3 million Palestinians in Gaza, half of them children, are besieged and bombed, killed and maimed, starved and displaced” He says “There is a genocide happening in Gaza” and that occupation of Israel should come to “an unconditional end”. He says there are “more than 3.5 million Palestinians … subjected to colonisation of their territory and the racist violence that enables it” in the Israeli-occupied West Bank including East Jerusalem, and says “1.7 million Palestinians in Israel are treated as second-class citizens in their ancestral land.”



2h ago 09.19 GMT Here is a picture of Palestinian Authority foreign minister Riyad al-Maliki and Palestinian UN envoy Riyad Mansour at the International Court of Justice in The Hague this morning. View image in fullscreen Riyad al-Maliki and Riyad Mansour attend a public hearing held by the International Court of Justice. Photograph: Piroschka van de Wouw/Reuters



2h ago 09.12 GMT Hearing opens at ICJ into 'the policies and practices of Israel in the Occupied Palestinian Territory' Proceedings have started for the day at the International Court of Justice in The Hague in the Netherlands. Before the court today is “advisory proceedings on the legal consequences arising from the policies and practices of Israel in the occupied Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem.” There is a live stream that you can watch here. AP reports that the Palestinian legal team will tell the panel of international judges that Israel has violated the prohibition on territorial conquest by annexing large swaths of occupied land and the Palestinians’ right to self-determination, and has imposed a system of racial discrimination and apartheid. 51 countries and three international organizations will also have an opportunity to speak. The court will probably take months to issue its opinion. There are public hearings scheduled every working day between now and Monday. Here is the schedule (times are local time): Mon 19 February: 10am – 1.15pm

Tue 20 February: 10am – 1.10pm and 3pm – 5.40pm

Wed 21 February: 10am – 1.10pm and 3pm – 5.40pm

Thu 22 February: 10am – 1.10pm and 3pm – 6.10pm

Fri 23 February: 10am – 1.10pm and 3pm – 6.10pm

Mon 26 February: 10am – 12.40am and 3pm – 4.30pm ICJ holds public hearings on Israeli occupation of Palestinian territories – watch live

Updated at 09.38 GMT

2h ago 09.04 GMT Lisa O'Carroll EU’s chief diplomat Josep Borrell said “everyone is afraid” Benjamin Netanyahu will give the go ahead to a military offensive in Rafah in southern Gaza in the coming days despite mounting international pressure to resist. Arriving at the summit foreign ministers in Brussels he also lamented one member state, Hungary, for failing to sign a communique last Friday calling for the Israeli prime minister not to go ahead. In the event the statement went out with 26 signatures. Borrell said: [We have] only the same bad news 1.7mn people are being pushed against the Eyptian border. The military operation has not happened, but everybody is afraid that this will happen in the next days. The only solution is to free the hostages and for a permanent ceasefire that could allow to look for a political solution. View image in fullscreen European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell arrives for a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Brussels. Photograph: Yves Herman/Reuters Belgium’s foreign minister Hadja Lahbib says she will press her counterparts to support a ceasefire at today’s summit. She said: As you know, the situation is increasingly alarming with 1.5mn refugees in the south of Rafah, Palestinians who lack everything, and the threat of a ground operation which has been repeated again by the Netanyahu cabinet. We continue to call for a ceasefire, unhindered access to humanitarian aid and the release of hostages. This is Belgium’s position and it is the one that I will defend again today.

