Avocado Anxiety Louise Gray

The impact of what we eat

Farming and food production are responsible for more than a third of greenhouse gas emissions, so the decisions we make about what we eat affect not just our own health, but the very future of the planet. Food and environmental journalist Louise Gray acknowledges that there is a lot of anxiety around food and eating today. She vividly recalls the stress she felt as a young mother while weaning her baby daughter, walking around the supermarket and feeling “overwhelmed and vulnerable and a little bit angry” for not being able to live up to the high ideals she had set herself. But she was also frustrated that there was not more information available about where the fruit and vegetables she would be feeding her baby came from. This was the inspiration for her book.



In twelve succinct chapters, Gray takes some of the most popular fruit and veg in our shops and explores their origin and history, before looking at how and where they are farmed. She talks to farmers, scientists and environmentalists about the challenges and impacts of each crop. For instance, bananas are the number-one user of pesticides of any crop globally. She starts every chapter with an estimate of the greenhouse gases emitted: the carbon footprint of avocados shipped from Peru is 1.6kg of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions, compared to just 0.89 kg for British-grown broad beans. Surprisingly, bananas account for only 0.7 kg because they are generally transported in bulk. Crops like avocados are also thirsty, and many are grown in areas of the world where water is scarce. Shockingly, it takes 85 litres of water to produce an avocado in Peru and 190 in South Africa.



Gray is clear that she doesn’t want to add to people’s food anxiety: “I am done with attacking myself or anyone else for eating ‘good’ or ‘bad’ food.” But as her informative book shows, there are complex and fascinating stories to be told about our five-a-day – where they come from, how they are grown, who grows them and their impact on the environment. And she hopes these stories can help us make decisions about what we put on our plates and ultimately reduce our carbon footprint while eating healthy, delicious food.



Among the clear takeaways about how we might improve the environment through our food choices are eating more plant protein, buying organic vegetables as well as Fairtrade bananas (ensuring the workers receive a fair wage), and cutting down on food waste. She even includes tasty and healthy recipes, such as fava bean hummus and carrot biscuits. From farmers regenerating their soil and scientists battling a banana pandemic, this is essential reading for anyone interested in the global impacts of what we eat.