Listening to audio programmes, or podcasts, is simple if you have access to the internet. You just need to find a podcast platform or app that suits you and then sample some of the many thousands of podcasts made around the world. All podcasts are free, and most are available via many different apps.

On a website

The simplest way to listen to podcasts is on a web browser like Chrome, Safari or Microsoft Edge. You can do this from a computer or from the web browser on your phone.

Find a website that has podcasts you like, for example the Guardian.

Find the player on the page, check your device’s sound is switched on and click play to listen to the podcast.

On your iPhone or iPad

If you have an iPhone you can use the Apple podcasts app to listen to podcasts.

The Podcasts app should already be downloaded on your phone so search your apps for ‘Podcasts’. If it’s not, go to the app store and download it.

Open the Podcast app and go to the search page (click on the magnifying glass button in the navigation at the bottom).

A search box should appear at the top, next to another magnifying glass icon. Tap on this and type in the name of the podcast you want to find eg: “Guardian Books”. Hit “enter” on your keyboard.

Choose the podcast you want from the search results and tap on it. This should take you to the podcast’s homepage.

Once you’re on the podcast homepage you’ll see a list of recent episodes. Tap on one to play it.

If you like what you hear, a subscribe button at the top of the page lets you subscribe for free. This means the app will automatically download the latest episodes to your library.

More information from Apple here.

On your Android phone

If you have an Android phone you can use the Google podcasts app.

Search “Google podcasts” in the play store app or click this link on your phone to open it in the store.

Install the app.

Once you open the app, use the search box (look out for the magnifying glass icon) and type in the name of the podcast you want to find eg: Football Weekly.

Choose the podcast you want from the search results and tap on it again. This should take you to the podcast’s homepage.

Once on the podcast homepage you should see a list of most recent episodes. Tap on one to play it.

If you like it, tap the subscribe button at the top of the page. When you subscribe to a podcast, it’ll appear at the top of the Google podcasts app, and a new section in the app will let you know about new episodes from podcasts you’ve subscribed to. You should also be able to listen to podcasts from the Google search app, just search for the name of the podcast.





And, if you’re interested in finding new, lesser-known podcasts or recommending your favourites, then sign up for our weekly newsletter, Hear here, at theguardian.com/podcasts.