5h ago 06.41 GMT Miners and banks give Australian bourse a little boost The local sharemarket has finished marginally higher, with gains for the big banks and major miners and losses from Lendlease, the broader property sector and CSL. The benchmark S&P/ASX200 index today finished up 6.8 points, or 0.09%, to 7,665.1. The broader All Ordinaries rose 7.7 points, or 0.1%, to 7,913.3. The Australian dollar was buying 65.44 US cents, from US65.19c cents at Friday’s ASX close. – Australian Associated Press

Updated at 06.47 GMT

5h ago 06.31 GMT Power out for 27,000 across Sydney at peak Today’s storm left a peak of 27,000 customers without power “as a result of lightning activity across wider Sydney”, Sam Sofi, Ausgrid Group’s executive of operations, says. Ausgrid has since restored 16,000 customers and anticipates restoring the remaining 11,000 this evening. Impacted suburbs include Balgowlah, Clontarf, Turramurra, Hornsby and the Central Coast and Lake Macquarie regions.

Updated at 06.43 GMT

5h ago 06.24 GMT Sydney storm causes transport chaos More than 30 departures were cancelled at Sydney airport today and 340 services in and out were delayed as severe storms sweep Sydney, Australian Associated Press reports. Commuters in North Sydney have also been warned away from trains after lighting struck network equipment. “Lightning struck signalling equipment just before 3pm, causing significant infrastructure damage,” Transport NSW said. View image in fullscreen Sydney city’s skyline today, as seen from Five Dock. Photograph: Rounak Amini/AAP Buses are replacing trains between North Sydney and Gordon on the T1 North Shore line, and Transport NSW is urging passengers to delay their trip or seek alternative travel arrangements. Sydney Trains crews are working through difficult conditions to repair the damaged infrastructure and bring services back online as quickly as possible.

Updated at 06.35 GMT

5h ago 06.13 GMT Blackout hits 13,000 NSW households and businesses amid storm About 13,000 households and businesses lost power in Balgowlah and Seaforth after an overhead power line was damaged in today’s storm, Ausgrid said, according to a Sydney Morning Herald report. “Our crews are on the ground and will work to restore power as soon as it’s safe to do so,” Ausgrid said.

Updated at 06.18 GMT

5h ago 06.05 GMT More on Victoria’s mass blackout Victoria’s 6,000km high-voltage electricity transmission system is owned and maintained by AusNet Services, but opposition energy spokesman David Davis argued it was ultimately the government’s job to ensure network security. Sydney power company Ausgrid in 2020 calculated the cost of moving its entire network underground at between $72bn and $130bn and estimated it would take 40 years, raising consumers’ bills by $1,200 to $2,200 a year. Victorian opposition leader John Pesutto said burying powerlines was worth considering in certain areas. In some parts, undergrounding might be possible. We know that in some parts it’s simply not. Fewer than 5,000 of homes and customers with AusNet were still without power as of late on Monday morning. The company was aiming to have another 2,500 back on the grid by later in the day. The South Gippsland town of Mirboo North was among the communities hardest hit by the storms, with at least 16 homes rendered uninhabitable. Residents have been told they can resume using water indoors but should hold off outdoors as the water treatment plant is still operating through a generator. Lightning strikes from the storms sparked bushfires, which destroyed at least 45 homes at Pomonal and one at Dadswells Bridge in the Grampians region. – Australian Associated Press

Updated at 06.11 GMT

5h ago 06.00 GMT Push for inquiry to shine light on Victoria’s mass blackout One of the biggest power blackouts in Victorian history has prompted a push for an inquiry into the reliability of the transmission network. More than 530,000 homes and businesses were kicked off power on Tuesday when violent storms swept across the state, bringing down hundreds of powerlines. Most customers had their power returned within 24 hours but tens of thousands spent several nights in the dark and some still remain off the grid. Victorian opposition leader John Pesutto accused the state government of failing to act on previous network reliability warnings and flagged plans to set up a parliamentary inquiry. He told reporters: We know these storm events are becoming more and more frequent and people are suffering unnecessarily. View image in fullscreen Damage in Melbourne after last Tuesday’s storms. Photograph: Victoria State Emergency Service/AFP/Getty Images Under the proposed terms of reference, the inquiry would look at the reliability and stability of distribution networks, the affect of the outages on homes and businesses and the cost of developing, maintaining and enhancing the network. The six-member upper house committee would be made up of two Labor, two Coalition and two crossbench MPs and provide a final report by 30 June 2025. – Australian Associated Press

Updated at 06.20 GMT

5h ago 05.50 GMT Thunderstorms are possible in eastern and central parts of NSW and ACT tomorrow. The Bureau of Meteorology is warning that some storms about the coast and south-east inland may become severe, with risk of locally heavy rainfall and flash flooding. #Thunderstorms are possible in eastern and central parts of New South Wales and the ACT tomorrow (Tuesday).

Some storms may become severe about the coast and southeast inland, presenting a risk of locally heavy rain and flash flooding.https://t.co/LRFVSVVAAD pic.twitter.com/KRRZYpXlMk — Bureau of Meteorology, New South Wales (@BOM_NSW) February 19, 2024

Updated at 05.52 GMT

6h ago 05.39 GMT Lincoln barrels towards WA and could become tropical cyclone again, BoM warns Ex-cyclone Lincoln could gather strength and redevelop into a tropical cyclone again, as communities in its path prepare for heavy rainfall and flooding. The weather system is barrelling towards Western Australia and should cross the border near Halls Creek as it tracks towards the coast. “The ex-tropical cyclone will move west-northwest through the Kimberley, driving areas of heavy rainfall, stronger winds and flash flooding with it,” the Bureau of Meteorology’s Miriam Bradbury said on Monday. “It’s likely to cross off the Kimberley coast late Wednesday going into Thursday.” Severe Weather Update: Rain and flooding with ex-Tropical Cyclone https://t.co/DH7ZitA31t current: 10am AWST 19 February 2024. For the latest forecasts and warnings go to our website: https://t.co/4W35o8iFmh pic.twitter.com/F23naT4HMd — Bureau of Meteorology, Australia (@BOM_au) February 19, 2024 The low is expected to move south down the coast late in the week. “As it moves over those warm waters it’s likely to increase its energy and its power and there is actually a high chance it may strengthen back to tropical cyclone intensity at this point in the week,” Bradbury said. That means even heavier rainfall and stronger winds that may impact some coastal parts of Western Australia. The bureau said it was possible ex-cyclone Lincoln could cross the coast near Exmouth at the weekend as a severe tropical cyclone. The system has bucketed heavy rain in the Northern Territory, with 24-hour totals over 100mm recorded in some areas. – Australian Associated Press

Updated at 05.51 GMT

6h ago 05.23 GMT Bob Brown banned from Tasmanian state forests after protest, he says Veteran environmentalist Bob Brown says he’s been banned from all state forests after being charged over a protest in defence of Tasmania’s giant trees. The former federal leader of the Greens and six supporters spent Sunday night at a logging site in the Styx Valley. Tasmanian police were called on Monday and Brown has been charged with trespass, alongside two supporters who locked themselves onto machinery (which you can find more about earlier in the blog). Brown said they could be jailed for defending Australia’s natural treasures and that “onerous” bail conditions mean he can’t set foot in more than a million hectares of state forest until the matter goes to court on 29 April. View image in fullscreen Bob Brown outside Bridgewater police station in Hobart after being arrested over an anti-forestry protest. Photograph: Ethan James/AAP He told Australian Associated Press at least four or five enormous trees had been felled in a logging coupe that comes within 200 metres of the world heritage area. The world heritage convention requires that areas of potential world heritage value shouldn’t be logged. The area is home to the largest flowering plants in the world – eucalyptus regnans, which can grow to a height of 100m. Brown said: I was sitting on one of the tree stumps, in amongst the carnage. Last week there was a brilliant ancient forest dating right back to the dinosaurs. This week it is a squalid ... graveyard of a forest. It’s appalling. He said the logging could end tomorrow if the state and federal governments mustered the political will. – AAP

Updated at 05.31 GMT

6h ago 05.09 GMT Magistrate Carolyn Howe rejected Micallef’s excuse of curiosity and said the woman knew how seriously the force took unauthorised access to its database. The police worker undermined the community’s trust in the force to keep its information safe, and also potentially put family violence victims’ lives at risk by accessing and exposing their information, the magistrate said. Howe told Micallef: Not only did you just breach the trust of your employer, you breached the trust of every person in the community. What’s really frightening is that you also accessed information that was linked to family violence situations. They’re in a fatality zone. If their location is disclosed, you raise their risk of fatality. The magistrate convicted Micallef, who will be on a good behaviour order for two years and have to pay a $1,000 penalty. – Australian Associated Press

Updated at 05.17 GMT

6h ago 05.09 GMT Police worker accessed files out of ‘curiosity’ A police worker claims she repeatedly accessed former schoolmates’ and extended family members’ files out of sheer curiosity, ultimately costing her a criminal conviction and her career. Cristal Micallef held multiple roles within Victoria police over several years, from an administrative position at Werribee police station in 2015 to her recent post as a project officer and executive support officer in the counter-terrorism command. She agreed to the force’s conditions only to use its database that catalogues people’s interactions with Victoria police with authorisation. However, she went on to use it to look at the records of former schoolmates, associates, extended family members and people she followed on TikTok, Melbourne magistrates court was told on Monday. Some of the people Micallef looked into were dead. Other searches were prompted by her concerns about people’s safety but she was primarily driven by “a sense of curiosity and unhappiness”, her lawyer, Sophie Parsons, said. The more Micallef improperly clicked through the system, the more she became desensitised to her behaviour, the lawyer said. She has suffered enormously for what she’s done. She has learnt that lesson and that’s not going to be quickly overcome by her. She noted Micallef had mental health issues at the time of her offending in 2022 and 2023. – Australian Associated Press (More to come on this in the next blog post.)

Updated at 05.16 GMT

6h ago 04.53 GMT Controversial water plan sparks fears for rare shark A rare shark has been discovered in the Northern Territory but a controversial water allocation plan has sparked fears it may be “lost forever”. The speartooth shark is considered critically endangered but dozens have been found in the muddy waters of the Roper River. Rangers have helped researchers study about 40 speartooth sharks, which usually live in limited numbers in tropical rivers across northern Australia and Papua New Guinea. A survey indicated the shark lived in a limited area of the Roper River, sparking fears it might be affected by the largest water allocation plan in the NT’s history. Researchers from Charles Darwin University and the Yugul Mangi Rangers have found a new population of Speartooth Shark in the Roper River of the #NT #Australia! An extraordinary find for this rare and threatened #shark 🦈#Conservation #RoperRiverDiscovery @IUCNShark 1/6 pic.twitter.com/drrwFqV8g3 — Charles Darwin University (@CDUni) February 19, 2024 The Northern Territory government released the Georgina Wiso Water Allocation Plan in November, allocating 210bn litres – about the same as 100,000 Olympic pools – for extraction a year. It has been the subject of criticism from environmental groups and traditional owners, who hold fears it could cause the Roper River to stop water flowing. Charles Darwin University’s Dr Peter Kyne said the speartooth shark population could be threatened by changes to their environment, making it important to understand the water plan’s impact on the Roper River. Kyne said: If we don’t then this unique and isolated population that call the Roper River home could be lost forever. – Australian Associated Press

Updated at 04.56 GMT