Jürgen Klinsmann has been sacked as South Korea’s head coach after the team’s semi-final exit at the Asian Cup and amid criticism of his leadership.

The national team committee had recommended the sacking of Klinsmann on Thursday, with the Korea Football Association’s technical director, Hwangbo Kwan, saying there were “various reasons” to doubt the German’s ability to exercise leadership over the team.

South Korea’s exit from the Asian Cup after a 2-0 loss to Jordan, which extended their 64-year wait for a third title, led to calls from fans and some politicians for the 59-year-old’s dismissal.

The KFA’s president, Chung Mong-gyu, said Klinsmann’s tenure fell short of expectations. “Coach Klinsmann failed to demonstrate leadership that we expected from the national team coach, including game management, player management and work attitude, which elevate the competitiveness of the national team,” he said.

View image in fullscreen Chung Mong-gyu talks during a press conference confirming Jürgen Klinsmann’s sacking. Photograph: Sanghwan Jung/Rex/Shutterstock

Klinsmann’s popularity in Korea nosedived during the Asian Cup, with many criticising his attitude after he was seen smiling despite poor performances. His leadership was also called into question after an altercation between players on the eve of the semi-final left the captain, Son Heung-min, with a dislocated finger.

Throughout his tenure Klinsmann was often criticised for mostly working in Los Angeles, where he resides, despite having said he would spend time in South Korea.

Before Friday’s announcement, Klinsmann expressed “sincere gratitude” to his players, staff and fans in an Instagram post. “Thank you so much for all your support taking us to the semi-final of the Asian Cup and an incredible journey over the last 12 months with not losing 13 games in a row before the semi-final,” he said.

skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to Football Daily Free daily newsletter Kick off your evenings with the Guardian's take on the world of football Enter your email address Sign up Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion

Klinsmann replaced Paulo Bento as South Korea’s coach after the team’s loss to Brazil in the 2022 World Cup’s last 16. He got off to a difficult start as South Korea went five games without a win, losing to Uruguay and Peru and being held by Colombia, El Salvador and Wales. Their form improved before the Asian Cup with six straight victories and despite some poor performances in Qatar they made it to the semi-finals, where they were unable to register a shot on target.