Gut health is more than a fleeting wellness trend – the positives of caring for your digestive tract are becoming as ingrained as lacing up your trainers to break a heart-pumping sweat or clocking eight hours of restful snooze. And as the body of research grows, so does the number of people trying to do more to look after their gut.

“We’ve seen a huge growing interest in gut health in stores in recent years,” says Darren Smith, assistant manager at Holland & Barrett Bullring in Birmingham. “While in January, customers would often ask for assistance with areas such as weight loss, energy and immunity, we’ve increasingly had people come in and say that they know something isn’t right with their gut.” Now, staff are specially trained to advise on products, from nutritious foods to tuck into, to the supplements that slot into busy lifestyles.

With the right advice, you can support your own gut health without a major overhaul of your lifestyle. By making 2024 the year of your gut, the countless microscopic lifeforms that help it function normally will thank you – and emerging research suggests there may be wider benefits related to your sleep quality, cognitive function, skin health and immune function ...

Gut feelings

The gut plays a complex role in our bodies. The term is actually short for the rather lengthy gastrointestinal (GI) tract, where food is digested via the stomach, small intestine and colon. It is home to the “microbiome”, which is essentially a rather buzzing knees-up, brimming with trillions of bacteria. If this community falls out of balance, then it’s a bit of a, err, party pooper. “We know that good gut health is essential for everything from improved cognition to quality sleep,” says Holland & Barrett nutritionist Alex Glover.

But how to know if something’s not sitting quite right? Millions of Brits suffer with stomach issues that they think are “normal”, says Glover.

“We’re still discovering what a ‘healthy’ gut actually looks like – so it’s important to avoid sensationalist claims and look to the science,” he says. Today, there’s solid knowledge about how to give your microbiome a boost – and, fortunately, it doesn’t have to involve gruelling, restrictive diets or giving up on all your indulgences.

Little by little

The key is to consume a diet packed with plants and whole foods, says Glover. Obviously, mealtimes can make a difference – recent research into light-dark cycles has shown that if you eat a big, carby meal late at night then it will sabotage your body’s ability to regulate blood sugar, therefore affecting your gut. But you can’t just quick-fix away your symptoms with a supplement alone. “We’ve seen from studies that the microbiome can adjust pretty quickly – a doubled-fibre intake will trigger changes in a matter of days – but this is about a long-term investment in your body,” he says, noting that you’re more likely to sustain small, positive tweaks than an overhaul of your entire life.

Comfortingly, these holistic changes for a happier gut are more about starting things or adding to your diet, rather than giving up or stopping. “There are perks to exploring sober curiosity, with alcohol a known gut irritant, while swapping coffee for mugs of green tea may help prevent caffeine from stirring up so much trouble,” says Glover. Then there are the perks of “flexitarianism” at a time when you may be tempted to sample Veganuary. “The data does not suggest plant-exclusive is better than being plant-based, and oily fish and kefir are gut-friendly,” he says. Additionally, beware of some meat alternatives – which aren’t always healthy. Holland & Barrett has a high-protein offering that contains four minimally processed ingredients, including beetroot and mushrooms.

The more you know

Not sure where to begin? Going into your local store will serve up fresh strategies, and Smith insists that you should never feel embarrassed asking for help with digestive worries. “Our friendly staff members will be reassuring and discreet – giving you the option of chatting about gut wellness in a quieter area of the store or in a private wellness consultation room, where available,” he says. “We’re all human, and we want to make you feel at ease.”

First, says Smith, customers will be asked about their dietary requirements – including things like allergies or cultural background – and the food and supplements they already consume. Customers taking medication are always advised to speak to their doctor first. “We want people to have the right product for them,” he says. “Without fail, there’s always something that will be beneficial to their gut – including things that are ready to consume, without them having to spend hours or days baking and fermenting.” Most people, he says, are rushed off their feet – perhaps balancing jobs or family life – and want one less thing to think about in their daily routine.

One of the hard-working products customers are drawn to – and which Smith himself uses – is the Tribiotic supplement range, which is a multi-tasking prebiotic, probiotic and postbiotic complex, featuring millions of friendly bacteria. Similarly, he will frequently point people in the direction of grab-and-go items that can elevate their lunch break or provide ideal snacks – including the Brownie Bites with Benefits or the apple chips, washed down with kombucha. “I’ve always wanted to help people,” he says. “It makes my week when customers come back in – as they often do – to say we’ve made a difference to their wellness.” Now, that feels really good.

For a science-backed gut-health plan that’s tailored to you, book a free 45-minute online appointment with one of our qualified, professional nutritionists at hollandandbarrett.com. (For a limited time, normally £45)