When Uwana Effiong joined global bank Citi’s first cohort of apprentices in 2020, she was unsure what to expect from the new scheme. “I had no idea what an apprenticeship was in terms of how I could scale it into a career,” she says. “I thought apprentices just collected coffees and scanned files all day, but my apprenticeship was far from that.”

Designed to offer an alternative route into a career in financial services, a Citi apprenticeship doesn’t require a degree, unlike other traditional graduate programmes. The scheme, aimed at school leavers and those in the early stages of their career, operates in London and Belfast. It varies in structure depending on the location and training modules apprentices choose, but all candidates receive training, on-the-job experience and mentorship. For those candidates who perform well and successfully complete the programme and receive a qualification, there may also be the chance to be considered for permanent positions at Citi where vacancies are available.

Having previously worked in property, Effiong had developed skills in communication, leadership and time management, and was keen to use them in a different sector. “I discovered project management and realised that all the skills I possessed were transferable,” she says. “I had previously attended university and felt it was not the right route for me, but when I came across apprenticeships I felt this was 100% the right path. Undertaking a qualification in a respected global company while earning and gaining invaluable experience was an opportunity I couldn’t afford to miss.”

Effiong, who took part in the London-based scheme, is now an ambassador for the programme, representing Citi at external events. She says it brings her “great joy” to see people “take a leap of faith” and consider alternative routes to education and employment.

View image in fullscreen Chris Brady and Uwana Effiong, former Citi apprentices

That’s a sentiment echoed by Jacqui Lloyd, senior vice-president at Citi and global head of apprenticeships and diversity, equity and inclusion execution. Having had a non-traditional career journey herself (previously working in education and the tech sector), Lloyd is passionate about diversity, equity and inclusion. She is committed to dismantling the myth that a career in financial services is only possible for people from certain backgrounds.

“There are a lot of very talented people sitting in untapped talent pools,” she says. “There is real value in capturing diversity of thought and apprentices bring something unique – a fresh perspective – to an organisation, which presents a great opportunity for us to challenge ourselves and avoid the tendency towards groupthink or sticking with what we know. Hiring the most diverse range of people into Citi from all backgrounds also helps us to better represent the communities in which we operate and the clients we serve.”

View image in fullscreen In the UK, the scheme operates in London and Belfast. Photograph: Gordon Bell/Alamy

Chris Brady is another former Citi apprentice, who initially carried out an internship at Citi – the Career Ready internship – after a college lecturer suggested he apply. “Then, while I was contracting for Citi, I was browsing LinkedIn and saw a post about Citi apprenticeships in London. I was instantly interested because of the opportunity to further progress my career at Citi while building valuable data analysis skills, so I applied online and reached out to Citi HR via the networks I had built during my internship.”

Brady, who after completing the scheme successfully applied and interviewed for a job at Citi, describes his apprenticeship as “a truly fantastic experience from beginning to end”. He credits the team he worked alongside (and continues to work with now) for supporting his efforts to balance his involvement in work projects with time to study and participate in workshops and lectures.

“They were also understanding of my drive to be treated like other people in the team, which allowed me to learn as much as possible and prove my worth as a valued member of the team besides the apprenticeship,” he says.

Balancing work with study is fundamental to getting the most out of a Citi apprenticeship, and Brady found this challenging but achievable. “With guidance from my managers, I could complete apprenticeship tasks around my work duties,” he says.

If you’re wondering whether a Citi apprenticeship is for you, Brady has some advice: “Just go for it,” he says. “Don’t let anything hold you back from chasing your career. A Citi apprenticeship is not only an alternative route into banking but also an opportunity to gain and expand on soft skills that are key to success in any role.”

A Citi apprenticeship is attainable to anyone who is highly motivated, possesses great potential, natural curiosity, a desire to learn and a spot of resilience. “For anyone looking at Canary Wharf and thinking it’s not somewhere they could end up working, I want to show that there are opportunities for you within the organisation,” says Lloyd. “How you look, what you sound like, or where you come from should not determine your career prospects. What we are talking about in terms of talent is not lowering the bar, but widening the gate.”

Find out more about opportunities at Citi at jobs.citi.com