There’s so much information out there on how to keep your gut happy – spanning everything from what you eat to when you eat it – that it’s easy to get overwhelmed. As someone who’s always had what I’ll politely call a fussy gut, I spend more time thinking about what I ingest than most. It means I’ve landed on a veg-heavy diet – honestly, because I especially love the taste of green vegetables – with some red meat for iron and fish for omegas. I don’t eat much gluten. Between meals, though, I’m always looking for snacks that won’t make me crash after a sugar spike – and that’ll taste good. So I tried out a few from Holland & Barrett in my eternal search for snacks that keep me satisfied, help my gut and don’t feel like “health-food” hard work …

Tummy Love Bars with Benefits

I tried two bars from Holland & Barrett’s Tummy Love food range: the red berry and the cocoa and hazelnut. Both are gluten-free, for which my stomach was grateful, and contain calcium that contributes to the normal function of digestive enzymes.

There’s an acidic burst of fruit in the red berry bar, balanced by the weight of its gut-loving oats. The cocoa and hazelnut bar, meanwhile, feels almost indulgent. It reminds me of some date-based brownies that my partner’s sister made me years ago, all cocoa-rich and unctuous. In both bars, chicory fibre adds a layer of nutty, toasted flavour – it plays just as nicely with the raspberries in the red berry bar and the hazelnut nibs in the cocoa and hazelnut bar.

View image in fullscreen Tummy Love Trail Mix with Benefits contains a mixture of fruits and nuts such as pistachios. Photograph: Kristin Duvall/Stocksy United

Tummy Love Trail Mix with Benefits

At this time of year, the Tummy Love Trail Mix would be good to take with you on a bracing winter’s walk. Friendly cultures have been added to oat and seed clusters, which remind me of being a child and cheekily grabbing handfuls of oat granola from the box between meals. This is far less messy, and wouldn’t make my mum irate. A mix of brazil nuts, cashews, pistachios and dried mango and papaya pieces blend the sweet and the savoury, while tasting satisfying and energy-rich. This is a convenient, calcium-rich source of energy on the go that’s also gentle on your gut.

Glow Kombucha with Benefits

I’ll admit I was hesitant before trying this cucumber and mint Glow Kombucha – I’ve never been the fermented tea’s biggest fan. But this canned drink was refreshing, and had none of that harsh, fake-mint taste you can sometimes find in menthol-flavoured drinks. Friendly cultures from the fermentation process naturally support gut function, while the drink’s added vitamin C contributes to normal collagen formation for the normal function of skin (which helps it look and feel bouncy). I had a can as I wound down after dinner, and it was delicious.

View image in fullscreen Get some added calcium with crunchy nut butter or the cocoa and hazelnut bar, to aid your digestive enzymes

Berry Bites with Benefits

I consider these high-fibre bites small but mighty. Like the Tummy Love berry bars, they combine berries with dates and cashew nuts, but also include almonds and flax seeds for a filling boost of nutrition. The sour cherries and cranberries lend the bites a fruity tartness, and the friendly cultures in each bag are brimming with gut-friendly bacteria. You get crunch from the seeds and nuts, so that each bite provides textural contrast – as well as immune-supporting vitamin C – and they left me feeling full. Studies show that it’s a good idea to eat 30 different plants a week, and a bag of these tick off seven of those 30 plant points, too.

Tummy Love Nut Butter with Benefits

I love crunchy nut butter, and this one made from peanuts and cashew nuts – with coconut, chia seeds and cardamom – hit the spot. It’s the sort of product I’d reach for based on flavour alone, even if it didn’t have additional health benefits. But there they are: fortified calcium, to help your digestive enzymes break down the day’s food, and fibre to keep your gut moving things along. I spread some on to gluten-free crackers as a snack, and will dollop more into berry and kale smoothies on the days I don’t have time to cook my usual breakfast of greens and poached eggs. The cardamom makes this a special nut butter, warmed up with spice. It’s ready for you to pair with crisp fruit or veg as a quick snack, slather on to toast or – and I promise no one’s looking – spoon right out of the jar.

For a science-backed gut-health plan that’s tailored to you, book a free 45-minute online appointment with one of our qualified, professional nutritionists at hollandandbarrett.com. (For a limited time, normally £45)