The owner of a Victorian hotel has been fined $80,000 and will be forced to sell the business after staff tried to cover up an illegal gambling payout.

Senior staff at the Rye hotel on the Mornington Peninsula falsified records to cover up an erroneous cash payment of $2,039 to a patron, Victoria’s gambling watchdog has said.

The venue also issued a cheque to a non-winning pokie player who did not produce identification, in a separate integrity breach.

An investigation was launched by the Victorian Gambling and Casino Control Commission after it received a complaint from a member of the public.

Under Victorian law, venues must pay any winnings above $2,000 by cheque or eftpos and can only process payments to a pokies player after an identity check.

As well as the hefty fine, the commission has required an undertaking from the owner to sell the hotel and exit the gambling industry.

The hotel has 30 pokies and wagering facilities such as TAB and Keno.

The penalty sends a clear messages to venue operators and owners on the consequences of falsifying records and concealing misconduct, the watchdog’s chief executive, Annette Kimmitt, said.

“We know that honest mistakes happen,” she said.

“However, venue operators that attempt to cover up breaches will be caught and face serious repercussions.”

skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to Morning Mail Free daily newsletter Our Australian morning briefing breaks down the key stories of the day, telling you what’s happening and why it matters Enter your email address Sign up Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion

The 1927-built venue has been under the ownership of the Houghton family since 1954, with Peter Houghton listed as its managing director.

In May, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission announced it was reviewing a proposal for drinks and hotel giant Endeavour Group to buy the family-owned business.

The national competition watchdog confirmed it would not block the deal in December.

The hotel has been contacted for comment.



