One of my favourite parts of my job is visiting suppliers. These days, people are doing the most inventive things with plant-based food and I love learning more about their products and how they create them.

At the start of this year I headed to Norwich to visit Club Cultured, a business that specialises in tempeh, an Indonesian food made from fermented soya beans. You can use it as a chicken substitute – something I often do when creating vegan recipes for my social media channels.

Being self-employed, I’m keen to make my time as productive as possible, so I decided to free up my driving hands and go to Norwich by train. When I get onboard at London Liverpool Street station at 7am, the carriage is quiet and I have a four-seat table section to myself, which is a treat. If I was driving at such an early hour I’d be tired and stressed, but on the train I can stretch out and relax. It turns out that the London Liverpool Street to Norwich line is one of the network’s Super Routes*, which are often faster, cheaper and more sustainable than driving. On this route, it’s 30 minutes faster and saves 12.9kg of CO2*.

I’m a city boy, so a nice train journey feels like a hypnotic break from the daily rush, giving me space to gather my thoughts and find inspiration. For me, taking the train isn’t simply travelling; it’s my way to unwind and to get things done. The wonderful views create a relaxed atmosphere, perfect for whether I want to focus on tasks or just enjoy the moment.

I also feel greener when I take the train. Compared with driving, it creates 67% less CO2*. I think everyone should go by rail more for that reason alone – even if it’s just swapping one car journey to train. It seems to me that making this switch is one of the simplest ways to lessen your impact on the environment. The views, space and snacks make for great bonuses too!

On my early morning journey, I’m reminded how much I enjoy going by train as I’m carried from the stark buildings and winter grey of London to the greenery of the Norfolk countryside and a hint of sunshine. The farther I leave the city behind, the more picturesque the scenery becomes. There’s something about seeing the rolling countryside that soothes my brain, making it easy for me to tick off tasks on my laptop.

Taking full advantage of the on-board wifi, I edit some work, do some admin and answer emails. To-do list done, I listen to a podcast about eating for cardiovascular, metabolic and gut health, and read How to Argue With a Meat Eater (and Win Every Time) by Ed Winters – arming myself with new ways to convert friends and family to the plant-based side.

There’s nothing left to do for the last part of my journey other than take in the view. It’s the most relaxing cinema you can imagine, watching endless green give way to towns and villages, before they dissolve back into endless green. I discover there’s a town in Norfolk called Diss. I was, like, what? The actual town is called Diss! If the town had its own anthem, I’d like to think it would be called the Diss track.

I feel rejuvenated as I step out into the fresh Norwich air – what a beautiful place. Catching up with the team at Club Cultured is inspiring; they have products created by Michelin-starred chefs, and supply them to the likes of Wagamama and Tortilla. So I know they take flavour as seriously as I do, and we spend time swapping ideas, tasting food and recommending vegan places to try.

Before I know it, it’s time to return home. The carriage is busier now, and as the sun sets it begins to rain. That’s another reason to be grateful for the train – what better way to travel on a cold, dark and wet evening? So much better than waiting in the wet for a bus, or navigating the busy, rain-lashed roads by car.

On the way back, I take some time to people watch, one of my favourite activities, and try to intuit why others are travelling. Is it for business, to visit family, or for a romantic break?

A simple swap to make an environmental impact

I came by train is a collective movement supported by the rail booking platform Trainline to help fight climate change. It draws on the combined power of small actions taken by many to create a bigger impact.



Whether it’s a commute, a holiday or a family get-together, swap one journey in 2024 and help create a collective impact with the thousands of others who have already pledged to choose train travel for the environment this year.



Cars and planes create 58% of the UK’s transport CO2 emissions, while the entire rail network adds up to just 1.5%. It’s almost always better to swap a car ride for a train journey, but the impact is amplified for solo drivers: taking the train instead of driving is 67% less polluting*.

With people trying to find ways to be more sustainable this year, train travel is a great choice for those who are passionate about the environment, and it has so many other pluses. Most of the things I do on trains simply wouldn’t be possible behind the wheel, whether that’s napping, working, reading or pacing the carriages.

When I step back on to the platform at London Liverpool Street, it’s busier and more bustling than when I left. It feels as if London is starting to spring back into life after the Christmas lull. And after a relaxing trip out of the capital, I feel ready to do the same.

*See how Trainline did its calculations

Find out more by visiting I came by train, a collective movement supported by Trainline to help fight climate change