Middlesbrough claimed their first win at the King Power Stadium with a 2-1 victory over Championship leaders Leicester. After the hosts missed two big chances to take the lead, Finn Azaz opened the scoring in the 24th minute with a clever finish from Lewis O’Brien’s square pass before Samuel Silvera’s emphatic strike after 37 minutes extended Boro’s advantage.

Jamie Vardy halved the deficit in the 85th minute, but Middlesbrough held on to end a four-game winless run and complete the double over Leicester. The Foxes, who lost at home for the first time since November, are now nine points in front of second-placed Leeds – their opponents on Friday.

Leeds kept up the pressure with what their manager, Daniel Farke, called a “mature” display in a comfortable 2-0 win at Plymouth. The victory came thanks to goals from Wilfried Gnonto and Georginio Rutter. “The Championship is relentless,” said Farke. “We must not forget we have one of the youngest sides in the division, especially near the top, so they have shown a lot of maturity. It’s all about consistency, which is what we are showing.”

Ipswich kept up their push for an automatic promotion place as Conor Chaplin claimed a landmark winner in a 2-1 victory at Swansea. Chaplin scored his 50th Ipswich goal to restore a first-half lead that had been wiped out by Jerry Yates four minutes earlier. Nathan Broadhead had put Ipswich ahead.

Coventry kept themselves in the playoff places with a hard-fought 1-0 win away at Stoke. Ellis Simms’ third goal in five games secured all three points for Mark Robins’ team, consolidating their sixth-place standing on goal difference. Defeat for Stoke means they have now lost five of their last six matches, leaving them just three points clear of the relegation zone.

Quick Guide League One: Pompey put four past Reading to keep six-point lead Show Portsmouth maintained their six-point lead with a comfortable 4-1 home win against Reading. Paddy Lane gave Pompey a 1-0 lead at the break and second-half goals from Marlon Pack and Callum Lang put them in control.

Colby Bishop's 16th league goal of the season made it 4-0 before Charlie Savage notched a late consolation for Reading, who slipped to their first defeat in seven league matches. Pompey have dropped only two points from their last seven to keep second-placed Derby at arm's length after Louie Sibley's last-minute goal clinched the Rams a 1-0 home win against Stevenage. Bolton sit three points further back in third place after twice hitting back in a 3-3 home draw against Charlton. Victor Adeboyejo's opener for Bolton was cancelled out by Thierry Small and the visitors twice led through Lloyd Jones and Daniel Kanu, with Paris Maghoma and Jon Dadi Bodvarsson replying for the home side.

Barnsley maintained their promotion push thanks to Herbie Kane's second-half winner at Fleetwood, who equalised through Bosun Lawal after Sam Cosgrove headed the visitors in front. Peterborough slipped to a fourth straight league defeat, 2-1 at home to Blackpool, for whom Karamoko Dembele fired a stoppage-time winner. Shayne Lavery's penalty had cancelled out the Posh midfielder Hector Kyprianou's headed opener before Dembele struck in added time. Oxford stayed in the final play-off spot after being held 0-0 at Wycombe. Cheltenham were the only winners in the relegation zone as they beat fellow strugglers Port Vale 3-2, while bottom club Carlisle were thrashed 4-0 at home by Cambridge.

Burton won 2-1 at Leyton Orient, Shrewsbury lost 1-0 at home to Wigan, Lincoln beat Exeter 1-0 at Sincil Bank and Northampton were 3-1 winners against Bristol Rovers. PA Media Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback.

Norwich reeled off their fourth straight home win as they cruised past Cardiff 4-1 to maintain their playoff push. Jamilu Collins fired Cardiff ahead after 19 minutes against the run of play, but the hosts were in front by half-time thanks to two goals in five minutes from Josh Sargent and Gabriel Sara. Sargent went on to add his 10th of the season after the break, with a fourth from the substitute Christian Fassnacht completing a comfy win.

The Hull captain, Jacob Greaves, snatched a dramatic stoppage-time winner as his side kept pace in the playoff race with a 2-1 victory at Huddersfield. Greaves had put Hull ahead in the seventh minute and, after Jack Rudoni had seemingly earned the home side a point in added time, netted a diving header in the dying stages to earn victory. Back-to-back wins following a disappointing home defeat by Swansea have left Liam Rosenior’s side out of the top six only on goal difference while Huddersfield lie two points above the relegation zone.

John Eustace’s wait for a first win at Blackburn goes on after Preston battled back to claim a 2-2 draw at Deepdale. Eustace, whose first game in charge ended in defeat at former club Birmingham, saw his side let a 2-0 lead slip but still dented Preston’s playoff hopes. All four goals came in the first half as Sammie Szmodics regained his place as the division’s top scorer before Sam Gallagher doubled the visitors’ lead. But Robbie Brady’s 39th-minute strike and Emil Riis’s effort four minutes later secured Ryan Lowe’s hosts a point.

Tony Mowbray celebrated back-to-back home wins against his most recent former clubs after Birmingham came from behind to beat Sunderland 2-1. Koji Miyoshi capped a magnificent comeback by City after Jordan James equalised on the hour to make it two home victories in five days after they beat Blackburn 1-0 on Tuesday night. Jack Clarke had given Sunderland the lead in the 22nd minute with his 15th goal of the season.

skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to Football Daily Free daily newsletter Kick off your evenings with the Guardian's take on the world of football Enter your email address Sign up Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion

Quick Guide League Two: Wrexham climb to third as title challengers drop points Show Wrexham climbed into the automatic promotion places after Steven Fletcher's solitary first-half strike sealed a 1-0 home win against Notts County. The Red Dragons were the only side in the top four overnight to register a win as leaders Stockport and second-placed Mansfield both lost.

Stockport slipped to back-to-back defeats as they went down 4-0 at Tranmere, with Jordan Turnbull's second-half double sandwiched by goals from Tom Davies and Connor Jennings. Mansfield, 9-2 winners against Harrogate in midweek, were beaten 2-1 at Walsall, where Emmanuel Adegboyega headed the winner after the Stags midfielder Stephen Quinn cancelled out Jamille Matt's opener. Harrogate put their humbling at Mansfield on Tuesday night behind them by holding Crewe 0-0 at Gresty Road, while Salford won an eight-goal thriller 5-3 against Barrow. Cole Stockton's double for Barrow came either side of team-mate Tyrell Warren's effort, while Callum Hendry and Matt Smith also struck twice for Salford, with Conor McAleny also on target.

Doncaster hammered Grimsby 5-1 at Blundell Park, where Luke Molyneux, Joe Ironside, Matthew Craig and Kyle Hurst were all on target. Niall Maher's own goal added to the visitors' tally, while the hosts scored through Danny Rose's penalty. Calum Kavanagh secured Bradford a third straight league win, 1-0 against Sutton, and Newport beat Gillingham by the same score thanks to Will Evans' effort. Wimbledon and Colchester were held 1-1 at home by Morecambe and Accrington respectively, Crawley beat Forest Green 2-0 at home and Stephen Wearne scored twice on his full league debut in MK Dons' 2-1 win at Swindon. PA Media Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback.

Watford gave their season a much-needed boost with a 1-0 win at struggling Rotherham. Both teams went into the fixture out of form and on the back of three straight defeats but Yáser Asprilla’s second-half winner gave Valérien Ismaël team a lift – though they were clinging on by the end.

Ilias Chair’s first-half goal boosted QPR’s survival chances with a 1-0 win over Bristol City at Ashton Gate. The key moment came three minutes before half-time when Lucas Andersen’s low cross from the right was stroked home right-footed by the unmarked Chair, who coolly passed the ball into the net from 12 yards.

QPR remain in the relegation zone, but sit just a point behind fourth-bottom Millwall, whose winless run extended to eight matches with a 2-0 home defeat by Sheffield Wednesday. The Owls had only scored seven away goals all season, but were in front at the break after Anthony Musaba set up Ike Ugbo before finding the back of the net himself. Millwall improved in the second half but failed to carve out many chances on their way to their fourth consecutive defeat.