If there’s one thing I’ve learned about being an author, it’s that you can find inspiration absolutely anywhere. This is something that comes in handy while I’m writing, especially when I find myself in the deepest depths of a creative rut, as I did a little while back. Whether it was burnout, stress, or just that time of year when the well runs dry and we all need a break, I was in a slump and struggling to put pen to paper. As you can imagine, that’s quite a problem when you rely on your writing to pay your bills.

The most common question I get asked about being an author is how I get through the dreaded writer’s block, and the answer is simple – stop, close the laptop, and take a look around. The last few months, I’d only really hit the first two steps. Not ideal. So I got to thinking about phase three – getting outside, exploring somewhere new, grabbing a coffee and a pastry and watching the world go by. You’d be surprised at what you see and how it can help to loosen the knots in your mind. I usually live by the motto that we should all collectively mind our own business, but getting over writer’s block is one time I ignore that. Be nosy! Be curious about the world around you and the people in it. You might just find that inspiration you’ve been looking for.

In a bid to get out of my slump, I booked a train to Cambridge for a spot of research. There’s no specific reason I chose Cambridge per se, it was more to escape my usual scenery and explore somewhere new. Plus, it meant using my favourite mode of transport. There’s something about travelling by train that’s just better, especially when it comes to finding inspiration and being able to utilise it immediately. And that’s before you get into all the environmental benefits. Taking the train is 67% less polluting* than going by car, and because I want being more sustainable to be part of my 2024 new year new me wave, it really was a win-win. There are plenty of people to observe, which can help with something like character development, not to mention a multitude of environments that slide by outside your window that can help with setting. Sometimes, seeing just one small thing can trigger a spark of creativity that opens the door to something new and exciting, which is exactly what I am looking for.

Travelling from London King’s Cross to Cambridge on a random Wednesday afternoon, my train crosses a high bridge overlooking what seems to be a small village. From my vantage point, I have a great snapshot of the large homes, the tennis courts, the surrounding woods and rolling fields. A little farther down, is a lone house tucked in the trees. Straight away, my brain starts ticking. I write in a few genres, including thrillers for young adults, so I begin to wonder what kind of mystery for older readers I might be able to weave, set in a village inspired by the one I’d just seen. Maybe it’s the weather or the thought of being in that isolated house alone at night, but it gives me the creeps. If you’re writing a thriller, that’s always a good sign.

The notes app on your phone is your best friend when you’re an author, so I immediately start jotting down some ideas. In just a couple of minutes, I have some vague concepts that I can explore further, mysteries that I could begin to unravel and build upon. With a little while left until I reach Cambridge, I crack open my laptop and set to work. A train can be a moving office, after all – when you’re an author on a deadline or with an idea that won’t leave you alone, it’s the perfect chance to get some work done. And freeing up your brain – and hands – by taking the train means you’ll have less of an impact on the environment than if you’d driven. Swapping just one car journey to rail this year can make a difference, and if we all did that, think of what we could achieve.

A simple swap to make an environmental impact

I came by train is a collective movement supported by the rail booking platform Trainline to help fight climate change. It draws on the combined power of small actions taken by many to create a bigger impact.



Whether it’s a commute, a holiday or a family get-together, swap one journey in 2024 and help create a collective impact with the thousands of others who have already pledged to choose train travel for the environment this year.



Cars and planes create 58% of the UK’s transport CO2 emissions, while the entire rail network adds up to just 1.5%. It’s almost always better to swap a car ride for a train journey, but the impact is amplified for solo drivers: taking the train instead of driving is 67% less polluting*.

A quick 20 minutes of plotting in the bag, we arrived in Cambridge. There’s something very picturesque about the classic, gothic architecture of the city and I find myself swept up in all of it. I’m currently reading Donna Tartt’s The Secret History, and with the bite of winter in the air, it is almost like I’d stepped into a book of a similar “dark academia” genre. I wander around a museum, explore some of the university college grounds, building and rearranging ideas in my head. In my opinion, the early stages of creating a story are the most fun because they’re so full of potential and promise. After a few hours meandering through the streets of Cambridge, I can’t wait to get back to my laptop and start working. But first, there is one last thing I want to do.

I head to a couple of bookshops, bustling with crowds. If there’s one thing I enjoy the most about being an author, it’s finding a book you’ve already published on the shelf somewhere, and I was lucky enough to find all four of my books, organised so they were face out. It makes me so proud when I’m fortunate enough to experience that moment and it’s a great reminder that any creative slump is only temporary. I’ve got through it before, and I can do it again.

I sign a few copies of my books, have a quick chat with a couple of booksellers and then wander back to the station for my trip home. On the train, I stare out of the window as the countryside glances by outside, feeling creatively lighter than I have done in months. It isn’t long until I get my laptop out again and start to work.

Benjamin Dean’s novel Me, My Dad and the End of the Rainbow won the 2022 Children’s Diverse Book Award.

*See how Trainline did its calculations

Find out more by visiting I came by train, a collective movement supported by Trainline to help fight climate change