We always knew it was a threat – but for this to actually happen, right now, is very unexpected. A lot of people ask why Alexei felt he had to go back to Russia, because they don’t understand his circumstances and the times. For him, to sit in Germany would have been death itself, because every Russian opposition leader, like Khodorkovsky, who tried to operate from outside Russia, became irrelevant in Russia. Russians would say: “How dare you speak to us from there? Why should we listen to you sitting comfortably in Germany?”

Alexei’s life’s purpose was to change that country. He’d say: “Odessa, I never left”, because he was put on a plane to Germany when he was in a coma. He never had the intention of leaving Russia because he knew leaving would be the death of his purpose. So there was no choice but to return to Russia and continue his work.

Alexei made his choice before the war in Ukraine broke out, and at that time we were all still unsure how to predict how far Putin would actually go. Of course we knew he had already tried to kill Alexei once. Staying in Germany, even though it was probably discussed, was not an option. Alexei Navalny had a powerful mission to accomplish, and nothing was going to stop him from that.

I spent quite a lot of time with Alexei during Covid making the documentary in the Black Forest, in Germany. I don’t know if for him it was all a love for the motherland that I don’t totally grasp, but he did have a love for the Russian people, and a desire for freedom and the rule of law.

He was very aware that Putin was taking more liberties, and he believed in a brighter future for his country. He spoke clearly and loudly against the war in Ukraine, and felt Ukraine should be returned immediately to its 1991 borders. It was one of the reasons he was put continuously in solitary confinement.

I was picked up in Kyiv this morning by a taxi driver who had a limp and a hand that doesn’t work, who had just come from the frontline. It is a tragedy to see these people suffering under the same kind of darkness that Alexei raged against.

He was selfless and courageous – and always had a good joke to lighten the mood. He looked at things and found a silver lining, and that’s what kept his spirits up in the last three years in detention. He was a smart and curious person who was in constant search of understanding.

He would ask about North American politics and pop culture. He’d say: “Odessa, tell me about #MeToo, tell me about Hollywood, how the young in America are thinking about all this.” Alexei was a wonderful combination of seriousness and levity.

He spent the last 15 years of his life working through his foundation in the hope of dethroning Putin from his authoritarian regime. I know he would urge that mission, and his message to Russia would be to not become something of the past but something that is continued in some way – that they do not, in the words of Dylan Thomas, go quietly into the night.

I hope that this is what his legacy brings. There is more to fight for, to stand up and take action for.

Interview by Edward Helmore