Innovation is key to the success of business, and football is no different. New ideas are supposed to take things forward, whereas the latest suggestion to introduce blue cards and sin-bins for dissent and tactical fouls would be a backward step for the game.

We need to eradicate dissent but risking the quality of the spectacle is not the way to do it. Referees should not be subjected to abuse and players need to learn how to control themselves in a pressurised environment when one decision can change the course of a match or season. But if they overstep the mark, officials have the means to punish them with a yellow or red card. These methods can be used more often to help referees. Bringing in an alternative does not seem worthwhile because it is overcomplicating matters.

It is often said a sending-off “ruins the game” because it will result in one team desperately trying to waste time. A side with a player in the sin-bin could well sit in a low block, making the period quite tedious for spectators. No one wants to pay good money to watch a match – in person or on television – and end up seeing a team use every trick in the book to waste time to allow their teammate to come back on without conceding a goal.

The irony is that when we are trying to stop time wasting, the blue card would lead to this being pushed to the limit. Also, tactically it would make the game boring. If referees used yellow and red cards as a matter of course for dissent and cynical, tactical fouls it would make players learn.

Things have improved when it comes to dissent at the top level; gone are the days when 10 players would surround the referee. One thing VAR has helped with is that trying to influence the referee is almost redundant because teams know key decisions are reviewed away from the pitch.

Quick Guide Arsenal v Manchester United to break WSL attendance record Show Arsenal's Women's Super League match with Manchester United this weekend is set to break the league's attendance record after the club announced on Thursday that the clash at the Emirates is a sellout. More than 60,000 tickets and all hospitality packages have been sold for Saturday's game, and Arsenal should break their own record of 59,042, which they set in December against Chelsea. "We are grateful for the incredible support we've had all season," said the Arsenal chief executive officer, Vinai Venkatesham,. "Our supporters' unwavering commitment and following, coupled with the performance of our team and the hard work of everyone behind the scenes at our club, has made this moment possible." This is the second occasion the stadium has sold out for a women's game, after their Women's Champions League semi-final second leg against VfL Wolfsburg last season, when 60,063 people attended the match. When Arsenal won the Champions League in 2007, then known as the UEFA Women's Cup, a crowd of 3,467 turned up for the second leg of the final at Meadow Park. The record attendance for a women's club game in England was set at last year's FA Cup final, where 77,390 people watched Chelsea defeat Manchester United at Wembley Stadium. Reuters Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback.

I appreciate the difficulties faced by referees, especially at grassroots level. I previously coached an under-11s boys’ team as a volunteer and once when the referee did not show up I had to officiate or we wouldn’t have been able to play. I was a player at the time, I would coach on Saturday mornings and play on Sundays but I was not expecting the vitriol I faced when making decisions in a children’s match. My aim was to make the right decisions, keep the players safe and create an enjoyable environment. But on the sidelines some of the parents were relentless, shouting at me, and I quickly learned the issues of being a referee at any level. It changed my perspective on the pitch and where I previously might have criticised a decision, I became more understanding, helped by the culture set by our manager in not wanting us to be a team that would constantly bemoan the referee.

View image in fullscreen The WSL does not yet have goalline technology let alone VAR as a norm. Photograph: Nick Potts/PA

Such an experience opened my eyes and it would be beneficial for players to learn about refereeing from a different perspective. Perhaps anyone guilty of barracking the referee could be sent on a course and made to spend time officiating a grassroots game – that would help them to learn the complexities involved with refereeing. Education is just as important as having a deterrent.

Sin-bins have been used in Sunday league and they are a fantastic incentive for players to be more courteous to the referee because without officials there will be no game. It is necessary to differentiate, though, between grassroots and elite football on certain aspects. At youth level a key focus is on the education of players to allow them to learn the rights and wrongs of football, whether that is how to cross a ball or be respectful to an official, so I can see the benefits of its usage.

skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to Football Daily Free daily newsletter Kick off your evenings with the Guardian's take on the world of football Enter your email address Sign up Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion

The most notable change in elite football in recent years has been the introduction of VAR and despite that becoming part of the norm at the top of the men’s game, it is laced with issues that are yet to be resolved. Concluding that blue cards and sin-bins could be seamlessly integrated seems optimistic from those coming up with the ideas.

The blue card is also due be trialled in women’s football. I understand and agree that you want the rules to be the same, because football is football. However, the women’s game doesn’t even have goalline technology let alone VAR as a norm. I am sure people will say the cost of implementing a new card as opposed to goalline technology is a factor but for the women’s game goalline technology is far more important in the immediate future. The cost should not be an excuse – this is the top level of women’s football and the stakes are too high not to have it.

As the Tottenham head coach, Ange Postcoglou, said sin-bins are “going to destroy” football. The authorities are coming up with new ideas for the right reasons but the methods will be detrimental. Football is still a simple game and the answers are often a lot simpler, too.