19h ago 16.16 GMT WSL roundup: Liverpool and Villa earn away wins Ceri Holland scored the winner but was then sent off as Liverpool won 1-0 at Brighton. The Reds captain pounced on a poor clearance from Sophie Baggaley in the 53rd minute, firing beyond the Brighton keeper and inside the near post to put the visitors in front. Holland earned her first yellow card 15 minutes later, and was dismissed after being booked again in stoppage time for a foul on Julia Zigiotti. Liverpool are now two points behind Manchester United in fourth, and three above Tottenham after they were beaten 2-1 at home by Aston Villa. Adriana Leon put the visitors ahead from close range in the 23rd minute, but Spurs levelled before the break through Amy James-Turner’s header. Jordan Nobbs scored a superb winner on the hour mark, finishing from 20 yards with the outside of her boot. The former Arsenal midfielder also hit the bar from Kenza Dali’s cross, while Daphne van Domselaar denied Martha Thomas and Jessica Naz as Villa held on to win despite the absence of Rachel Daly, who is serving a three-match ban. View image in fullscreen Jordan Nobbs celebrates after scoring the winner for Villa at Brisbane Road. Photograph: Paul Childs/Action Images/Reuters Leicester came from behind to heap more misery on bottom side Bristol City with a 5-2 win at the King Power Stadium. Ffion Morgan put the visitors in front in the 20th minute with a long-range effort, but Leicester quickly equalised through Yuka Momiki before another Japan international, Saori Takarada, bundled home just before half-time. Bristol City equalised four minutes after the restart through Amalie Thestrup, but Janice Cayman restored the hosts’ lead before Jutta Rantala drove in a fourth with 15 minutes to go. Leicester wrapped up victory when 16-year-old Denny Draper, on as a substitute, stabbed home a fifth in the 89th minute for her first senior goal. Everton eased their relegation fears by leapfrogging West Ham with their first home win of the season. The hosts left it late at Walton Hall Park before Martina Piemonte headed home a free kick from compatriot Aurora Galli. Roles were reversed three minutes later as Piemonte set up Galli to complete the job. Guardian sport

Updated at 18.06 GMT

20h ago 14.44 GMT Matt Beard chats with Sky. “We knew that they would overplay at the back and I felt we forced them into a lot of turnovers, especially in the first half. And obviously the goal come from that as well…Brighton were always going to have a passage of play in the game. It was real tough conditions so we’re really pleased…the first one [Holland yellow card] in my opinion is a great tackle…and I just think the referee needs to understand the state of the game on that second one. There was no malice in the tackle. We’re in the 94th minute, it’s a heavy pitch and I don’t think it really warranted a yellow card…It is [important to get three points] especially on an international break. The clean sheet was important for us as well…It just means we can go away with smiles on our faces.”



21h ago 14.34 GMT Mikey Harris talks to Sky. “That’s the way we want to play. We know it comes with an element of risk so I’ll take responsibility for that one [playing out from the back] today. On another day we could have got a point out of the game…We asked the players to try and dominate possession, try and dominate the ball which I felt like we did for large spells today. We asked them to get the ball back as quickly as possible. Again, I think we did pretty well today. I think we could have been a little bit better particularly in the first half in our pressing but we changed that and that definitely improved things. It’s really, really disappointing to see the girls put so much effort and energy into the game and to play with such courage and ultimately come away with nothing.”



21h ago 14.16 GMT Sophie Román Haugh speaks to Sky. “Of course the pitch was a bit difficult today and also we knew Brighton would be fitter and they’d have a lot of quality players and a good team. But as a team we stepped up, we picked the duels and brought home the points…We were prepared for what was to come. So I think we prepared ourselves well and did a good job handling the conditions. I’m happy with the win…It was tough all until the end but the players stepped up and happy to bring it home…It was three important points. It’s always important before a national break to have that win and to go in with a good feeling. So we’ll take that good feeling with us and keep going.”



21h ago 14.08 GMT Nonetheless, Liverpool held on. Liverpool stay in 5th, keeping the pressure on Manchester United in 4th. Brighton missed the opportunity to rise to 7th position and remain in 11th place after their defeat. Liverpool edge closer to the top four 👀 pic.twitter.com/Z0YPHaOgeT — Sky Sports WSL (@SkySportsWSL) February 18, 2024



21h ago 14.00 GMT FULL TIME: Brighton 0 - 1 Liverpool Yes, they can. Liverpool take all three points. The win marks their first WSL victory this year. Yet looking at Matt Beard’s face, the win is bittersweet because of Holland’s red card. For Brighton it’s another WSL defeat. Harris’ side played some decent football but failed to really test Liverpool, especially in the second half.



21h ago 13.57 GMT 90 +6 min: Liverpool keep the ball in the right hand corner of the pitch, eager to see the game out. Can they hang on?



21h ago 13.55 GMT RED CARD (Holland 90 +3) Second yellow for Holland for a late challenge near the edge of the Liverpool box. It could be a nervous few minutes for the Reds now.

Updated at 13.55 GMT

21h ago 13.53 GMT 90 min +1: Liverpool work it well on the left hand side. Kiernan heads towards the byline and whips in a ball for Koivisto at the back stick. The defender is only able to sky it over the bar as she stretches to reach it.



21h ago 13.50 GMT 85 min: Brighton win a corner. The Brighton players crowd Laws in goal and almost get their reward for their pressure. The inswinging delivery from the left almost makes its way to Lee but she’s unable to stick a foot out to guide it into the back of the net.



21h ago 13.47 GMT 83 min: Again Brighton lack the killer instinct in the final third. Second half substitute Guem-Min Lee threads the ball through to the right winger but the attack comes to nothing.



21h ago 13.43 GMT 81 min: Julia Zigiotti Olme picks up the ball in the centre of the pitch and fires a shot at Laws. Her strike is ultimately tame and doesn’t test the Liverpool keeper.



21h ago 13.40 GMT 79 min: Brighton are persisting with their ball playing philosophy. Despite looking shaky at times, they play their way out of the back before sending a long ball over the top to Terland. She can’t quite get a hold of it though and Liverpool regain possession.



22h ago 13.36 GMT 72 min: It should really be 1-1. Brighton play a looping ball over the top to Terland. The striker charges towards the six-yard box and crosses the ball with the outside of her right boot. Her cross is slightly behind Katie Robinson who tried to get on the end of it. It would have been a tap in with a slightly better delivery.



22h ago 13.32 GMT 68 min: Brighton win a foul in the centre of the pitch following a challenge from Holland. Pattinson whips it in from about 35 yards out and Laws unconvincingly tries to claim it. As she leaps above her defenders, the ball slips out of her mittens. The goalkeeper has stayed down though after receiving a knock in the process.



22h ago 13.28 GMT 66 min: Brighton are getting into some good areas. Again they’re finding joy on the left. This time Pattinson and Bremer combine. Pattinson’s cross is tame and easily saved by Laws though.



22h ago 13.25 GMT 64 min: Liverpool seem to have taken the sting out of the game after going ahead. Brighton need to create a few more opportunities.



22h ago 13.23 GMT 59 min: Changes for both sides early on in this second half. Liverpool make a double substitution as Melissa Lawley and Höbinger make way for Leanne Kiernan and Missy Bo Kearns. Surprisingly for Brighton, Veatriki Sarri makes way for Pauline Bremer. Sarri was one of Brighton’s most dangerous players, causing all sorts of problems on Liverpool’s right hand side during the first half.



22h ago 13.15 GMT GOAL! Brighton 0 - 1 Liverpool (Holland 52) A goal had been coming. Brighton play themselves into trouble as they pass the ball around the back. Baggaley gives the ball away, gifting Liverpool a chance. Ceri Holland picks the ball up on the edge of the box and cooly slots it past Baggaley in the bottom left hand corner.



22h ago 13.11 GMT 51 min: The early passages of play in this second half don’t bode well for Brighton. Harris’ side have conceded the most goals in the second half of any side in the league.



22h ago 13.10 GMT 49 min: Liverpool have started the second half brightly. Brighton give the ball away cheaply as they try to play from the back. Liverpool have already won their second corner of the second half.



22h ago 13.08 GMT 45 min: Brighton kick off. They’ll be hoping they can convert one of their chances in the second half.



22h ago 13.06 GMT 45 min: The two teams head back to the pitch with a new referee. Amy Fearn has picked up an injury and is replaced by Emily Heaslip.



22h ago 12.56 GMT HALF TIME: Brighton 0 - 0 Liverpool It’s all square at half time. Both sides have had chances to go ahead, especially towards the end of the half. Although Liverpool have probably seen more of the ball, Brighton will probably go into the dressing room the happier side, as they’ve come the closest to scoring.



22h ago 12.51 GMT 45+2 min: Two additional minutes and an additional chance for Brighton. A shot from the right hand side of the box lands comfortably into Rachael Laws’ hands though.



22h ago 12.49 GMT 45 min: Even closer! This time it’s Brighton on the attack. The ball falls to Patinson on the left hand side of the box and she hits a cross/shot onto the bar.



22h ago 12.47 GMT 44 min: Close! Liverpool win a corner and of course Román Haug is the target. She holds her defender and guides a stooping header agonisingly past the left hand post. A sense a goal is coming.



22h ago 12.45 GMT 42 min: Pattinson has been brilliant all half. Most of Brighton’s attacks have come through her on the left hand side. Liverpool recognise the threat and bring her down. Brighton free kick. View image in fullscreen Emma Koivisto muscles Brighton's Poppy Pattinson (left) off the ball. Photograph: Adam Davy/PA

Updated at 13.39 GMT

22h ago 12.41 GMT 36 min: Guro Bergsvand fouls Ceri Holland on Liverpool’s left hand side. The resulting free kick is played straight into Baggaley’s hands. The Brighton keeper wastes no time, launching the ball out of her hands to send Brighton on the counter attack. Once again Brighton lack quality in their final ball and the attack comes to nothing.



23h ago 12.35 GMT 33 min: The game has become quite scrappy after a short break while Pattinson received treatment for the previous clash of heads. Neither side has quite found their rhythm.



23h ago 12.30 GMT 26 min: Brighton try to play out from the back again. A clipped ball from Baggaley leads to a clash of heads between Emma Koivisto and Poppy Pattinson. The Brighton player goes down clutching her head but ultimately looks like she will soldier on.



23h ago 12.26 GMT 23 min: Both teams are sparring at the moment. There haven’t been many clear-cut chances, apart from Terland’s strike.



23h ago 12.23 GMT 20 min: Liverpool whip in another corner from the right hand side. It ultimately comes to nothing but Brighton transition from defence to attack quickly. The final ball into the attacker isn’t quite right but it shows Brighton’s potential on the counter attack.



23h ago 12.19 GMT 15 min: Now it’s Liverpool’s turn to go on the attack. Melissa Lawley plays in a teasing ball into the box from the right hand side. Nobody is able to connect with the first cross but it’s played back in from the left for Marie Höbinger to meet it first time. The shot is blocked well by the Brighton defence. The Seagulls have have blocked 81 shots on goal in the WSL, 26 more than any other side.



23h ago 12.15 GMT 11 min: Brighton press Liverpool well and Elisabeth Terland picks up the ball about thirty yards out. Full of confidence, she sends sends a low drive past the left hand post. It may have even clipped the post. Promising early signs for Brighton. View image in fullscreen Elisabeth Terland has been an early attacking threat for Brighton. Photograph: Mike Hewitt/Getty Images

Updated at 13.40 GMT

23h ago 12.13 GMT 10 min: Brighton are playing some intricate stuff on the left hand side. Poppy Pattinson plays a quick one-two with a teammate and whips in a dangerous ball. It just manages to evade a Brighton head.



23h ago 12.10 GMT 6 min: Sophie Román Haug connects with the corner from the right hand side. She rises well and heads the ball past the right post. Brighton won’t want to gift her too many opportunities. Román Haug has won the most aerial battles in the league with 58 (21 more than any other player).

Updated at 12.32 GMT

23h ago 12.07 GMT 4 min: Brighton look confident on the ball in the early stages. Despite the Liverpool press they play the ball out the back calmly. They have conceded a corner now though…



23h ago 12.03 GMT 1 min: Early corner for Liverpool. It’s floated in but it’s a comfortable save for Sophie Baggaley.



23h ago 12.00 GMT Matt Beard talks to journalists during his Friday press conference: “Structurally there’s obviously been a few changes. The way that they’re [Brighton] building and playing. I think out of possession they’re a lot more organised with regards to they’re not as high risk with their pressing as they was [sic] under Mel. So we need to be patient on Sunday when we have the ball structurally they build really well and defensively they’re organised. So in such a small amount of time I think he’s done a fantastic job so tactically it’s going to be a good challenge for us on Sunday.”



23h ago 11.58 GMT Mikey Harris speaking during Friday’s press conference: “We’ve had a lot of opportunity to do our research. I’ve watched them [Liverpool], you can see a clear identity, they’re well coached. I know Matt – I used to work with his brother Mark here at Brighton for a number of years so I know what he’s about and what his teams will look like and we’re expecting a tough game on Sunday. We’ll be prepared as best we can and we’ll be going all out to win the game.”

