For a quick trip with plenty to see, do, eat and drink, you can’t go wrong with one of Germany’s stunning cities. The country’s history and geography mean that each has its own unique character so, whether you want your holiday packed with culture and history, or are simply looking for a short new-year break, you will be spoilt for choice. From Berlin to Heidelberg, we bring you seven top destinations for your next city getaway.

To get the most out of your visit, you need somewhere relaxing and comfortable to come back to, and the Hilton hotels are set in fantastic locations with spas, pools, gourmet dining, luxurious beds, and health clubs, guaranteed to refresh. You can even start your holiday early by choosing to stay at a handy Hilton airport hotel. Read on and decide which of these seven German cities you’ll choose for your next city break.

Berlin

Despite being Germany’s capital and biggest city, there’s a laid-back atmosphere to Berlin, and open-air theatres, beach bars and shopping at the Kurfürstendamm or Friedrichstraße districts are popular pastimes. This is a city of striking contrasts: beautiful, historical buildings, such as the Reichstag and Brandenburg Gate, stand next to or near modern and brutalist architecture. There are some 170 museums and galleries, many of which can be found on the internationally renowned Museum Island, but there’s also lots of green space with sprawling parks, woods and lakes to relax in.

Where to stay

Hilton Berlin is a brilliant oasis in the heart of the city. While only 1.5 miles (3km) from Checkpoint Charlie, the Brandenburg Gate and the Berlin Wall, the hotel helps guests relax with an indoor pool, spa and the Restaurant Beletage, which features a glass dome overlooking Gendarmenmarkt square. If your plan is to explore the city on foot, Hampton by Hilton Berlin City Centre Alexanderplatz will serve as the perfect base. It’s within walking distance of the TV tower, Berlin Cathedral and the train station. Alternatively, Waldorf Astoria Berlin treats its guests to contemporary luxury with all-day dining at Roca, a state-of-the-art spa and more than 200 elegant rooms, many of which have skyline views. You can even stream an exercise class on a Peloton bike in the fitness centre. Shopaholics, meanwhile, can “drop” after their “shop” at DoubleTree by Hilton Berlin Ku’damm, which overlooks Los Angeles Plaza and is a brief stroll from the luxury boutiques of Kurfürstendamm.

Cologne

Cologne is known for its party spirit, and the world-famous Cologne carnival, which takes place between new year and Ash Wednesday (14 February 2024), is evidence of the city’s penchant for fun. You’ll see people dancing, singing and celebrating in the bars around the Alter Markt and Heumarkt squares, and plenty of kölsch, Cologne’s signature beer, being imbibed. Outside of carnival season, Cologne is still bursting with music and art, and you’ll find works by Picasso, Warhol and Lichtenstein at the Ludwig Museum; Rembrandts and Monets at the Wallraf-Richartz Museum, and musical theatre at the Musical Dome, opposite the city’s stunning cathedral, on the banks of the Rhine.

Where to stay

After you’ve enjoyed the Cologne Cathedral and old town, make the short walk to Hilton Cologne. You’ll find a sauna and fitness area to wind down in and the Pigeon Post Bar & Eatery, where you can refuel with local and Mediterranean dishes, and playful, innovative cocktails.

Frankfurt

With its impressive skyscrapers – reminiscent of New York – and fast-paced, no-nonsense vibe, Frankfurt is a frenetic city where deals are brokered every day. There’s much more to it than finance, however; the idyllic Frankfurt old town has recently been renovated, bringing its half-timbered houses, pedestrianised squares, quaint shops and cafes back to their former glory. Nearby you’ll find the Archaeological Garden, which features the remnants of a former Roman settlement with Roman baths, as well as the remains of a ninth-century imperial palace. Römer city hall, and the Goethe House and museum are also worth a visit.

View image in fullscreen Hilton Frankfurt City Centre boasts a central location and a New York theme

Where to stay

Hilton Frankfurt City Centre puts you right in the beating heart of this metropolis; Alter Oper concert hall and Bockenheimer Anlage park are a short walk away, while Städel Museum and the medieval villa, Römer, are just 1.2 miles distant. Whether you’re seeing the sights or clients, this hotel will help you switch off, with its indoor pool, spa and all-day dining at two restaurants. The New York connection extends to the menus and themes in the hotel, especially at Hudson Yards Bar & Dining. While Hilton Frankfurt Airport has easy access to the train station, directly below, and the airport, via a covered pedestrian bridge, you might not want to leave the hotel. It has a 24-hour fitness centre, sauna, and steam bath, plus, the all-day Rise Restaurant offers both international and regional dishes. Jetsetters may also enjoy Hampton by Hilton Frankfurt Airport, a short shuttle ride from the airport, where you can revive yourself after your travels with a free hot breakfast, gym workout or snooze in a blissfully comfortable bed.

Mainz

Mainz, just 20 minutes by train from Frankfurt, is renowned as Germany’s wine capital and for being the home of the Gutenberg printing press, invented in the 1430s. It remains the country’s media centre and there’s a lively, buzzy feel about the place, especially the old town. If you’re interested in finding out more about the city’s history, check out the Gutenberg Museum and the Romano-Germanic Central Museum, which charts its unique Roman heritage. The Kunsthalle art gallery is also a must-see, if only to experience the sloped exhibition floor on a seven-degree incline. Don’t be surprised if you also feel a bit wobbly after sampling the city’s exquisite Rheinhessen riesling. There are numerous wine bars, many on the riverfront, where you can easily while away an afternoon.

Where to stay

Views of the Rhine, a block from the historic old town and a top-class restaurant? You can’t go wrong with a stay at Hilton Mainz, with its fitness centre and the Weinstube restaurant overlooking the river. What’s more, Frankfurt fairground and the airport are both a 20-minute drive away.

View image in fullscreen Heidelberg’s medieval streets and picture-postcard town centre are home to Germany’s oldest university. Photograph: instamatics/Getty Images

Heidelberg

Considered one of Germany’s most beautiful – as well as smallest – cities, Heidelberg sits on the banks of the Neckar River. It’s a city of culture, science and learning, and boasts Germany’s oldest university, founded in 1386. Heidelberg survived the second world war intact, and the medieval town centre has dozens of winding alleyways, old sandstone buildings and beautiful statues. It’s well worth taking the cable car from the old town up to the partially ruined 13th-century Heidelberg Castle to enjoy a guided tour, a meal at one of the two restaurants, or just the spectacular view of the city below.

Where to stay

Hilton Heidelberg – the newest of the group’s hotels in Germany – is minutes from the waterfront, with calming views of the Neckar River to enjoy. It’s within walking distance of the old town, so, when you’re exhausted after taking in everything this city has to offer, there isn’t far to get home. Here, you can revive yourself with a great night’s sleep, visit the on-site fitness centre or relax over a delicious local meal from Schrieder’s Restaurant.

Munich

Munich is famous for its Oktoberfest and is home to dozens of beer gardens, including the world’s largest at Hirschgarten, capable of seating 8,000, where you can spend the afternoon mulling over a local ale and trying some of Germany’s famed sausage. Drinking aside, the city looks like it’s straight out of a fairytale: it has not one, but two picture-perfect palaces; the ornate Nymphenburg Palace and the Residenz, which today houses a vast network of museums and galleries. There are more than 80 museums in Munich, including the Glyptothek, built from 1816-1830, where you’ll find famous masterpieces, along with the work of up-and-coming artists.

Where to stay

Situated in the heart of the city and next door to the Rosenheimer Platz S-Bahn train station, Hilton Munich City is a great option if you’re planning to explore Bavaria, as well as Munich itself. Plus, if you’d prefer an alternative to the local beer gardens, the master mixologists at the hotel’s Juliet Rose Bar will whip you up a cocktail in no time. At Hilton Munich Park, you can enjoy an escape from the city’s hubbub; the hotel sits beside the Eisbach River, just steps away from the English Garden and the Chinese Tower Beer Garden. Relax on your private balcony or in the hotel’s indoor pool, gym, sauna and steam room. In contrast, Hampton by Hilton Munich City North is right in the heart of the Schwabing business district, and well-placed whether you’re heading into the city or out to Munich’s international airport. Hilton Munich Airport, meanwhile, offers the best access if you’re flying in and out, along with a Michelin-starred fine-dining restaurant, Mountain Hub Gourmet, and a spa, designed to help you relax after a long flight.

Dresden

On both banks of the River Elbe, Dresden is an unfairly forgotten destination on the German tourist trail. Famously, the city was badly bombed in the second world war and many of the historical sights had to be completely rebuilt. Its elaborate baroque architecture has a very different feel from the rest of Germany, and, in the old town, you’ll find the Lutheran Frauenkirche church, Dresden’s Royal Palace, the Residenzschloss, and the gallery, museum and garden of the palatial Zwinger complex. On the opposite bank is the new town, or Neustadt. This is the quirkier part of Dresden, with street art on almost every corner and an enormous indoor market, filled with shops and restaurants.

Where to stay

In the middle of the old town, one block from the Elbe and overlooking the reconstructed Frauenkirche, is Hilton Dresden. Despite being surrounded by history, this hotel is packed with modern features, including an indoor and outdoor pool, fitness centre and five different restaurants, serving German, Japanese, Vietnamese, Thai, Italian and steakhouse cuisine.

Discover more on the Hilton website