KATE Beckinsale and Florence Pugh looked all partied out as they left the boozy BAFTAs parties last night.

Actress Kate, 50, put on a racy display in a daring black dress with a lace bodice, high-legged corset and long train skirt.

8 Kate Beckinsale looked all partied out as she left a boozy BAFTAs party Credit: Getty

8 So did Florence Pugh Credit: The Mega Agency

It certainly looked like she'd enjoyed herself while departing British Vogue And Tiffany & Co's bash held at Annabel's.

Meanwhile, Oppenheimer star Florence, 28, made a statement in a white lace gown as she headed home from the Universal Pictures function at the Nomad Hotel.

Her outfit featured a dramatic lace trim, with Florence keeping warm with a coordinating feathered stole.

She had much to celebrate as the Christopher Nolan biopic swept the board with seven wins.

Cillian Murphy, who played the title character J. Robert Oppenheimer, won the Leading Actor award, while Christopher Nolan took the Director prize.

And Cillian, 47, is the first Irish-born star to win the Leading Actor Bafta.

During his speech, where he referred to his co-stars as his “Oppen-homies”, he said: “Oppenheimer was this colossally knotty complex character.

“One man’s monster is another man’s hero. That’s why I love movies.”

It won awards for Original Score, Cinematography and Editing while Robert Downey Jr won best Supporting Actor.

But Barbie missed out in every category, with stars Margot Robbie and Ryan Gosling flying in from LA but leaving empty-handed.

Keep up to date with the latest news, gossip and scandals on our celebrity live blog

8 Kate put on a racy display in a daring black dress with a lace bodice Credit: Splash

8 She'd been at the British Vogue And Tiffany & Co's bash Credit: The Mega Agency

8 The actress was escorted out by a pal Credit: Getty

8 Florence made a statement in a white lace gown Credit: The Mega Agency

8 She headed home from the Universal Pictures function at the Nomad Hotel Credit: The Mega Agency