A PILOT has made a shocking claim that the missing MH370 flight could have been tampered with from the inside.

The retired Qantas captain has opened up on what may have happened to the doomed plane that baffled the world when it vanished almost 10 years ago.

5 A pilot has spoken out about what he thinks happened to a missing flight Credit: National Geographic

5 Captain Mike Glynn has shared what he thinks could have happened

MH370 was travelling from Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia to China's capital Beijing when it lost contact and disappeared in March 2014.

Despite extensive searches for the plane, it has never been found and the fate of the 239 onboard remains a mystery.

Just one week after the plane was downed, then-Malaysian prime minister Najib Razak claimed there was a "high degree of certainty" communications with MH370's cockpit were severed on purpose.

One popular theory is the crash was a murder-suicide at the hands of captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah, 53, but it has never been confirmed by authorities.

Now Captain Mike Glynn has shed some new light on what he thinks may have gone down in the moments before the suspected crash.

Appearing on Sky News Mike revealed that there were a number of ways someone inside the cockpit could have incapacitated passengers.

It comes as News Australia's new documentary covering the mystery - MH370: Ten Years On, set to premiere at 7.30pm AEDT on Tuesday.

He added that they could have been on the brink of death without even realising there was a problem.

Mike told the outlet that someone inside the cockpit could have locked its door and forced the plane into out of control by depressurising the cabin.

He said: "[They'd] make sure the door's locked, so no one can get in. Nothing that anyone could do."

British passenger PUNCHES air steward in the face and has to be restrained after 'smashing up plane toilet' during flight from Bangkok to London

'When you open these outflow valves, the aircraft depressurises very quickly,' he said.

"If the aircraft's not going to descend, you'll start to feel very hypoxic within three or four minutes."

Hypoxia happens when the body does not receive enough oxygen.

It can leave to delirium and a rapid heart rate before loss of consciousness.

Mr Glynn added it would have been easy for someone inside the cockpit to keep other people out as locking doors were introduced after the 9/11 plane hijackings.

He explained: "The door will automatically close, and you can lock it by this switch."

He continued: "And you can also, there's a manual deadbolt that prohibits any sort of entry into the flight deck. You can have a full on attack on the door, it's not going to change a thing."

At 12.14am onMarch 8 Malaysia Airlines lost contact with MH370 close to Phuket island in the Strait of Malacca.

Malaysian authorities believe the last words heard from the plane, from either the pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah or co-pilot, was "Good night Malaysian three seven zero".

Early theories focused on the idea that the plane had flown north into central Asia.

Pilot Patrick Blelly and aerospace expert Jean-Luc Marchand said a new area could be searched in just ten days.

Marchand said: "We have done our homework. We have a proposal … the area is small and considering new capabilities it will take 10 days."

"It could be a quick thing. Until the wreck of MH370 is found, nobody knows (what happened). But, this is a plausible trajectory."

Marchand and Blelly's theory, prompting the search, is that the plane was deliberately hijacked by an experienced pilot before it plummeted into the ocean.

"We think, and the study that we've done has shown us, that the hijacking was probably performed by an experienced pilot," Marchand claimed.

"The cabin was depressurised ... and it was a soft control ditching to produce minimal debris. It was performed as to not be trapped or found.

"Certainly, the aircraft was not visible except for military. The guy knew that if search and rescue would be triggered it would be on the flight path."

French Air Force air traffic controller, Gilles Diharce, previously spoke to The Sun Online about research with Blelly and Marchand and explained their theory suggests the plane landed in an unsearched area of the South Indian Ocean.

The area mapped out by Patrick Blelly and Jean-Luc Marchand is just next to the original search zone that was covered by underwater sea company Ocean Infinity and the Australian government between 2104 and 2018.

The pair provided evidence to support previous theories they've put forward that the plane's communication and tracking systems were turned off and the pilot did a U-turn on the flight path.

They specifically said it changed direction in between Thai, Indonesian, Indian, and Malay airspace - sort of "no man's land" of tracking.

Marchand said: "What would have been the intention of the hijackers? This is a very sensitive area. You have Thai, south Indian radar coverage, but they don't care.

"You have reached the war range, but also the radar, so this zone here is in no man's land. No control, no visibility for Kuala Lumpur. So, the guy can do whatever he wants."

5

5 The flight disappeared without a trace in 2014 Credit: Getty