A SMALL European town has been labelled as "unfairly" overlooked by tourists, due to its more famous neighbour.

The town of Annecy in the south east of France is extremely popular with visitors because of its Venice-style canals and "fairytale" scenery.

5 Views of the lake from the mountain pass are among the best things to do in the town Credit: Alamy

5 The Spa de L'auberge de Père Bise has won several awards Credit: Spa de l’Auberge du Père Bise

5 Talloires is close to the popular holiday town of Annecy Credit: Alamy

However, just a stone's throw away is Talloires, which is often ignored by holidaymakers, despite it being just as picturesque as its more famous neighbouring town.

The two even share a lake, Lake Annecy, meaning their views are fairly similar.

One of the best places to enjoy those views is from Le Col de la Forclaz - a mountain pass accessible from Talloires that overlooks and is rated as its number one attraction.

One TripAdvisor reviewer said it offers "breathtaking views of the Lake Annecy and the entire mountain range".

The natural beauty continues into the Roc de Chère National Nature Reserve, which is a major ecologic site and a protected nature reserve since 1977.

The area is very popular with hang-gliders and water sports enthusiasts too, with canyoning tours particularly in demand.

Caverns and rivers running through the landscape around the lake can be traversed with cables, while small natural plunge pools can easily be jumped into along the way.

One person who feels particularly strongly about the town as a destination is travel blogger Emily Embarks, who included it in her list of hidden European gems.

She wrote: "One of the most underrated hidden places in Europe is Talloires, France.

"It’s a beautiful town backed by mountains and perched over Lake Annecy which makes for excellent water sports activities.

"Talloires has been unfairly overlooked by visitors to this area due to the nearby popular destination of Annecy, despite its natural beauty."

Away from thrill-seeking water sports and hiking, Talloires also offers visitors the perfect place to relax in its award-winning resort, Spa de l’Auberge du Père Bise.

Everything you need to know about visiting France Brits need to have a passport with at least three months left on it.

No visas are needed for anyone staying up to 90 days within an 180-day period but you need to make sure your passport is stamped on entry and exit.

You may also need to show proof of accommodation and funds, around €120 a day.

The country uses the euro with with around €10 working out to £8.55.

France is one hour ahead of the UK

Direct flights to France from the UK take between 1-4 hours depending on the destination

Or you can travel by train with Eurostar, with destinations including Paris or Lille.

The spa sits right on the shores of Lake Annecy and offers treatments like massages, reflexology, yoga and pilates, while a calming dip in the pool overlooking the lake is also highly recommended.

It has a bar and two restaurants and two Michelin stars.

There's also a five-star hotel on-site with rooms and suites available for guests.

The spa only has four and five star reviews on TripAdvisor, with one writing: "We had wonderful massages and enjoyed the pool and hot tub."

Getting to Talloires is simple, with Geneva and Lyon both nearby.

A night for two in the town can be booked from around £65

Talloires is one of many towns in France that tourists might overlook when planning holidays.

Morlaix

The small French town of Morlaix lies in the foothills of the Monts d’Arrée mountains and has been compared to small British cities.

In an article in the Independent, travel writer Anna Richards said the town had the feeling of a "handsome" town in the UK.

She wrote: "Many places in France claim to be 'so British' with twee tea rooms and beach huts reminiscent of Victorian postcards, but Morlaix is where British and French culture really fuse.

"Crêperies alternate with curry houses on the cobbled streets, and the tall, handsome buildings are reminiscent of Bristol or Bath – but with quintessential French shutters in sage or periwinkle blue. It’s a happy marriage."

Colmar

The small town of Colmar in Alsace has been likened to scenes from a Disney movie.

The narrow cobbled streets run either side of idyllic canals, all lined with pink cottages and cosy historical taverns.

One TripAdvisor reviewer said it was a "photographer's dream" adding: "It’s like walking into Disney movie! The whole region is! I literally gasped walking around beautiful corner after corner."

Meanwhile, these six holiday spots in Europe are yet to be found by Brits.

And this beautiful beach town can be reached from the UK by train.

5 Canyoning is one of many popular water sports for visitors to take part in Credit: Alamy