RTE star Doireann Garrihy lit up the Dancing With The Stars studio in the "nicest dress ever".

Dynamic duo Doireann and Jennifer Zamparelli were back in action last night for the another episode of the hit RTE dancing show.

3 Doireann Garrihy looked gorgeous wearing a sequin dress on air Credit: Instagram

3 Doireann smiled while posing for some backstage snaps Credit: Instagram

3 Jennifer Zamparelli and Doireann Garrihy co-host Dancing With The Stars together Credit: Kyran O Brien

Doireann stepped out on air in a stunning silver one-sleeve sequin mini dress and black sandal heels.

The 2FM radio star got her hair curled and wore it down in a side part.

She finished off her look wearing silver hoop earrings.

The 31-year-old took some beautiful photos of herself backstage on set.

Doireann shared the snaps on Instagram and said: "Was great to only have to tan three limbs this week.

"The last pic is my face when Texas Hold ‘Em came on during the photoshoot.

"Styled by @clementinemacneice, assisted by @louiselllawlor, hair by @siansharkeyhairstylist, skin prep by @jenniferrock, makeup by @paula_callan_makeup."

The popular presenter's friends and fans all loved her glamorous look and rushed to the comment section with compliments.

DWTS contestant Katja Mia said: "Such a beaut!!"

Megan wrote: "This is the nicest dress I've ever seen on you!!!"

This is the most I’ve ever felt myself, says Doireann Garrihy as she stuns in ‘dreamy dress’ on Dancing With The Stars

Catherine commented: "You look stunning and your dress is gorgeous."

Denise added: "The nicest dress ever."

Doireann recently looked out of this world earlier this week as she stunned at her friend's wedding.

Herself and her partner Mark Mehigan got engaged last November.

The happy couple took a trip down to Cavan to stay at Farnham Estate earlier this month.

AISLE SAY!

The next morning, they got up bright and early to get ready for their pals Michael and Lynn's wedding.

The RTE 2FM host did her makeup in the car on the way to the wedding venue.

Doireann called the experience "one of the worst decisions of her life".

However, she still did a great job regardless of the many potholes on the road.

The wedding was held at the stunning four star hotel in Monaghan, Castle Leslie Estate.

Herself and Mark posed for a gorgeous selfie as they enjoyed their meal at the reception.

The 31-year-old looked jaw-dropping wearing a black square-neck dress with puffy short sleeves and silver floral detailing.

While Mark stunned in a classic black suit, white shirt and black dickie bow.

Doireann shared the photo on Instagram and captioned it: "More wedding bells."