LOVE Island fans are raging ahead of the All-Stars finale - believing another couple should’ve gone home before Arabella Chi and Adam Maxted.

On Sunday night’s episode, the All Stars islanders received a massive shock when all the former contestants returned for one last game.

4 Arabella and Adam were given their marching orders by their fellow islanders Credit: Eroteme

4 In a twist, the fate of the islanders were left in the hands of their dumped pals Credit: ITV

But it was far from a sweet reunion as they’d returned to vote off one of the last remaining couples.

Arabella was seen getting frustrated as she and Adam were repeatedly voted for as "they hadn't been together as long", branding the decisions "s**t".

Joe Garratt eventually got the deciding vote when it came down to a tie - and he chose to send Arabella and Adam home over Georgia Harrison and Anton Danyluk.

She later branded the move a "cop out" while in a chat with Maya Jama, with both Arabella and Adam saying they failed to see the "romantic side" of Georgia and Anton.

It looks like fans were in quick agreement.

One wrote on X: “Everyone voting Arabella and Adam was such a cop out.

“They have more chemistry in their little toes than Georgia H has had for Anton this entire series.”

Another said: “How tf did arabella and adam lose over anton and georgia, and callum and jess didn’t get a single vote.”

A third agreed: “The people who voted Arabella and Tom were cowards to be honest.

“Anton and Georgia H were RIGHT there!”

Callum & Molly have HUGE cash offers on table & will be the real winners of Love Island All Stars

More raged: “Few hours behind but Arabella and Adam should not have been going home.

“We all know there is one couple left, as individually popular as they are, who will NOT last a second on the outside.”

How all the ex-islanders voted THEY returned to the All Stars villa to cast their vote on who they want to dump from the villa. Here are the full results: Mitch: Georgia H and Anton Demi: Arabella and Adam Chris: Georgia H and Anton Luis: Molly and Tom Kaz: Georgia H and Anton Liberty: Arabella and Adam Tyler: Georgia H and Anton Hannah: Arabella and Anton Jake: Georgia S and Toby Joanna: Arabella and Adam Casey: Georgia H and Anton Jess: Arabella and Adam Joe: Arabella and Adam

BETTING SPECIAL - FREE BETS AND TIPS FOR LOVE ISLAND 2023

However, it seems it was all for the best.

Speaking to The Sun after her exit, Arabella said: “At times I thought in the villa, how am I being as unlucky in love in here as outside?

"But when Adam walked through the door finally my luck changed.”

Love Island: All-Stars finale airs tonight at 9pm on ITV2.

Keep up to date with the latest news, gossip and scandals on our celebrity live blog

4 Many are questioning how legit Anton and Georgia are as a couple Credit: Rex