A MAJOR supermarket is the latest to offer an Aldi and Lidl price match guarantee following several big-name chains.

Morrisons is attempting to win back shoppers from the German discounters by matching prices on over 200 products.

1 Morrisons is attempting to win back shoppers by matching prices on over 200 products

From Monday, the items will be marked on shelves as either the same price or lower as Lidl and Aldi.

It comes after Asda also took a similar step recently, becoming the first chain to vow to match both of the discount supermarkets.

Other retail giants, such as Tesco and Sainsbury's, offer a singular Aldi promise.

Morrisons' price match promise will be checked against the rivals twice a week.

The chain said that the products it has chosen are ones that people buy a lot of.

These include fruit and veg, pasta, flour, mince and milk.

It's important to bear in mind that the announcement will not mean price cuts for most of the products that are included in the match.

A spokesperson for Morrisons said: "The vast majority of the products which are now Price Matched to Aldi and Lidl were already the same price, today’s announcement is about reassuring customers and helping to change perception."

Aldi and Lidl have been taking customers from traditional supermarkets over the last decade.

Around 10 years ago Morrisons had 11.3% of the grocery market, while now it has just 8.8%, according to the most recent data from Kantar.

Over the same period, Aldi’s market share went up from 4.1% to 9.3%, while Lidl also grew from 3.1% to 7.5%.

Chief customer and marketing officer Rachel Eyre said: "We want to reassure our customers that we have hundreds of products that are the same price or cheaper, with the quality they’ve come to expect from us, than those available at Aldi and Lidl which is why we have launched our new Price Match.

"We hope this new campaign will bring our quality and value into even sharper focus for our customers."

Morrisons has not revealed the full list of items which are included in the match guarantee.

Here is a selection of the items included in Morrisons' Aldi and Lidl price match:

British semi-skimmed milk 4 pints - £1.45

Bananas 5 pack - 78p

Carrots 1kg - 65p

Onions 1kg - 99p

British steak mince 5% fat 500g - £3.49

Chopped tomatoes 400g - 49p

Chicken breast fillets 1kg - £6.49

Toastie white loaf 800g - 75p

Orange squash no added sugar double concentrate 1.5L - 95p

Penne pasta 500g - 75p

Plain flour 1.5kg - 79p

It comes as grocery prices have begun to fall after years of continuous rises.

As prices across the economy increased, food was one of the highest risers, so while companies are reducing prices, this is often only from a higher baseline over the last two years.

The traditional supermarkets have in recent years felt the heat from German discounters Aldi and Lidl which tend to offer products at lower prices.

How can I save on my supermarket shop?

Shopping at cheaper supermarkets is just one way to save money on your food shopping.

You could also try making a list beforehand as you'll be less likely to make any rash purchases.

Buying supermarkets' own-brand goods instead of big-name brands will also help slash costs.

Some supermarkets also run "wonky" veg schemes, where you pay less for fresh produce that's misshapen or imperfect and still perfectly tasty.

For example, Lidl's Waste Not scheme means you can get five kilos of fruit and veg for just £1.50.

Checking how much a product costs per unit is a handy way to find the best value.

Look at the price per kg/lb/litre so you're making a like-for-like decision.

And when shopping, don't forget about supermarket loyalty schemes, where you can build up points to spend on a later shop.

For example, Sainsbury's has Nectar and Tesco has Clubcard.

Plus, look out for yellow or red stickers on food products that show they've been reduced.

Meanwhile, the exact cost of a weekly shop at eight major supermarkets has been revealed - and the cheapest will save you more than £40.

And, the UK's cheapest supermarket for 2023 has been named - and it could save almost £20 on each shop.

Do you have a money problem that needs sorting? Get in touch by emailing money@the-sun.co.uk.

Plus, you can join our Sun Money Chats and Tips Facebook group to share your tips and stories.