JAKE PAUL has teased a trilogy across both boxing and MMA with Tommy Fury - offering a deal of up to £16MILLION.

The YouTuber-turned boxer has angled for a rematch with Fury ever since losing their celebrity grudge match in February 2023.

2 Jake Paul wants to rematch Tommy Fury Credit: Getty

But Paul has continued to accuse his boxing rival of pricing himself out to avoid the pair sharing the ring again.

He told ESPN: "I think he is a lot of things, one of which is not very serious about the fight and actually making it happen.

"And too unrealistic in terms of offers and finances. He thinks he's his brother and his dad is delusional in terms of what he's actually worth.

"And I can see how that happens, if they're like, 'Yo, Tyson Fury's getting this, Tommy should be getting this.'

"It's like, no. That's not how it works, brother. So it's hard to get that across these hard-headed people who aren't very good at business and don't understand the way and the landscape of boxing.

"I think there's a massive fear of, not only losing, but they're just trying to be unrealistic about the numbers, which again, maybe, those two go hand in hand.

"We all know everyone tries to price themselves out if they don't really want to fight and hide behind that.

"I think that's where things are, but regardless, I'm on a different mission to become world champion.

CASINO SPECIAL - BEST CASINO WELCOME OFFERS

"All doors for Tommy lead to me. I can do whatever I want."

Paul, 27, bounced back by beating ex-UFC star Nate Diaz, 38, on points following his first boxing loss.

Jake Paul reveals HOUR long phone call with Tommy Fury for rematch but fears rival is already making 'excuses'

The American then knocked out 10-1-1 boxer Andre August, 35, in December and returns on March 2 against 17-2 Ryan Bourland, also 35.

Fury, 24, meanwhile edged past Paul's arch rival KSI, 30, in his last fight in October and has since had hand surgery.

Paul last year signed with the Professional Fighters League, where he will make his MMA debut.

And his business partner Nakisa Bidarian talked up a trilogy fight in the PFL cage as part of a $20m (£16m) deal for Fury.

Bidarian said: "He's willing to fight him in boxing and if Jake wins, he's willing to enter the SmartCage in PFL with Tommy.

"There's a path there where it's close to $20 million in guaranteed money."