A "METAL monstrosity" seating area is set to be torn down after a council order.

The outdoor seating at a beach club in Norfolk has failed to get retrospective planning permission after angry locals objected to it.

3 The 'metal monstrosity' sits next to North Beach, near Heacham in Norfolk Credit: Alamy

3 The seating structure erected at the Silver Sands Beach Club at Heacham is set to be taken down Credit: SWNS

The Silver Sands Beach Club will now have to remove the metal structure that sat next to its shop and provided outdoor seating with a view.

Locals sent in scathing objections to the Heacham application that centred on the look of the structure.

The seating area consists of a raised steel frame structure with metal stairs. On top are seats on a black timber deck, which overlook nearby North Beach.

One objector said: "The towering, ugly metal scaffolding erected around the Silver Sands pub that now confronts you as you drive onto the beach road is completely out of character with the iconic wooden beach houses and huts, or the low-level caravan park.

"This metal monstrosity detracts from the natural beauty of the beach and protected marshland nearby. It will further deter the visitors that Heacham's economy relies on."

Another said: "This raised platform is more representative of an industrial site, such as an oil refinery or a chemical works.

"It has a dominating and overbearing appearance and will be detrimental to the area."

While a third said: "This metal monstrosity detracts from the natural beauty of the beach and protected marshland nearby. It will further deter the visitors that Heacham's economy relies on.

"Moreover, the height and construction of the tower in this location is an accident in the making, and should be refused on health and safety grounds, before someone is severely injured."

In its decision, West Norfolk Council said: "The structure is considered to be visually incongruous and out of keeping with the rural, coastal locality which is characterised with generally low-rise structures.

Man forced to bulldoze his £500k ‘monster mansion’ after neighbours complained it ‘looked like a Travelodge’

"The development appears very industrial in design and materials are poor with no particular relation to the surrounding area.

"The structure is out of scale with the locality it finds itself in and the lack of handrail to the stairs and poor safety as well as the overall relationship with the site further compounds this unacceptable impact."

West Norfolk Council has been approached for comment.

Meanwhile, residents in Rezare, east Cornwall, overcome with anger at builders who they claim have obliterated their view with a metal monster resembling a "rollercoaster".

What are your rights in this situation? As this was retrospective planning application, locals objecting to the structure were able to make submit their thoughts on the application. In this case, they won. But, that is not always guaranteed and the council's decision depends on a number of factors - including what the public think. Some developments don’t require planning permission. For example, under Permitted Development Rights, it is possible to extend your home by set amounts without needing to approach your local council to get planning permission. But if you think your neighbour’s building work is going to exceed these limits, then you can check with your local council whether they applied for the proper permission. All planning permissions are made public, so you can see exactly what your neighbour is up to before work starts.