A RICH MUM has shown off her daughter's lavish second birthday party after becoming the world's youngest CEO.

Vera Sidika made sure her daughter celebrated in style - even kitting the party out with 'kid Champagne' and a party that wouldn't look out of place in the Kardashian's family.

5 Asia celebrated her second birthday in style Credit: Instagram/princess_asiabrown

5 The 'bling baby' even had 'Champagne' to celebrate Credit: Instagram/princess_asiabrown

5 Olaf and Mini Mouse were also in attendance Credit: Instagram/princess_asiabrown

Asia Brown walked the pink carpet to her lavish birthday that was decorated in sweet pastel colours to match her dreamland theme.

Vera and her tot often share their lives on social media showing off their insane 5-star holidays and birthday presents.

Celebrating her first birthday, Asia was gifted diamonds as well as a mini car.

And this year, it seemed no detail was spared either as the young tot took over an entire park to celebrate her big day.

Included in the set up was a pink photo backdrop, a tea party set, a DJ, and even a giant pink inflatable play park.

For the occasion, Asia wore a pretty muted pink dress with a giant skirt while Vera sported a fuchsia number.

As the world's youngest CEO, it only makes sense for Asia to go all out on her birthday and take a break from the 9-5 grind.

For dinner, she and her friends sat around a table kitted out for a fine-dining experience with champagne flutes and 'kid champagne' which showed white bottles embellished with gold diamonds.

Face painting, clowns and other entertainers were also invited along to make Asia's birthday celebrations extra special.

Vera has previously spoken to Fabulous about how she’s raising her little girl, explaining that she’s already made Asia the CEO of her own company.

I buy my kid, 2, designer bikinis, a £3k bed & shower her with Chanel dresses

“She’s going to be a millionaire by the time she is five,” she insisted.

Asia was born in September 2021 and within twenty-four hours the infant star had amassed a staggering 25 thousand followers on her Instagram page.

Asia is a super bling baby, and I wouldn’t have it any other way Vera Sidika

“She’s a viral sensation,” the proud mum who is based in Nairobi, Kenya says.

“It was staggering and she is already one of the world’s top babies’ influencers.”

While Vera hasn't revealed how much she splashed out on her daughter's second party, she previously stated she spent £10,000 on Asia's 'first half birthday'.

As well as a lavish party, she also bought her daughter a £5,000 gold bracelet, diamonds and a car.

Asia is know the registered CEO of her own organic hair and skincare company and has 126,000 followers on Instagram.

Clearly she gets her work ethic from her mother who is also the head of international detox brand VEETOX.

She said: "I’m self made. I am a plus-size model and businesswoman.

"I wanted to show the world what hard work and determination can get you after I gave birth to my beautiful daughter."

The mum admits to giving Asia the princess treatment and buys her whatever she wants.

Proud mum Vera said: "I don’t care what people think, it’s my money and I invest wisely and work hard.

"Asia is a super bling baby, and I wouldn’t have it any other way."

Fabulous will pay for your exclusive stories. Just email: fabulousdigital@the-sun.co.uk and pop EXCLUSIVE in the subject line.

5 Her glitzy bash was the talk of the town Credit: Instagram/princess_asiabrown