DANCING With The Stars contestant Joshua Cargill has nabbed the highest score of the season with a "powerful" and "heart-wrenching" performance.

The Belfast native danced a breath-taking Viennese waltz to the song Lose Control by Teddy Swims with their professional partner Simone Arena.

3 Josh performed a breath-taking Viennese waltz tonight Credit: Kyran O Brien

3 The judges were blown away by Josh's 'powerful' performance Credit: RTE

3 They received the highest score of the season Credit: RTE

The Northern Irish drag queen goes by the stage name Blu Hydrangea.

Ahead of tonight's performance, they said: "This week I want to show a side of Blu that no one has ever seen.

"Everyone knows Blu but Josh is the person behind the make-up.

"The story that I want to tell with this dance is that when I'm Blu I have so much confidence but then I lose that when I'm Josh.

"It's about finding the love within myself, when I'm Blu, but when I am Josh as well."

Josh waltzed onto the dance floor in a black outfit, a blonde wig and some light make-up.

At the end of the incredible performance, they took of the wig, the black mask and wiped off their red lipstick.

The pair gave it their all and it definitely paid off as they received the highest score of the season.

Loraine Barry, Brian Redmond and Arthur Gourounlian were back to give their professional and tough-talking reviews and scores tonight.

And they were so impressed with Joshua's dance moves.

Loraine got choked up as she said: "This was raw story telling, you really did strip back and you bared your soul.

"When you took of that mask and wiped away the lipstick, that's the real Josh there."

"This is not a fairytale Viennese waltz, this is a powerful, heart-wrenching story that was danced out on that floor and I salute you."

Arthur added: "This was one exquisite Viennese waltz, Josh you were born to do this dance."

'AMAZING'

Brian went on to say: "Joshua, it's great to see you.

"It's an honour I suppose for you to be able to allow us to call you Joshua tonight."

He added: "The way you used your foot work there, I've never really seen anyone do it as well as that."

With 29 points, the pair received a 10 from both Loraine and Arthur.

RTE viewers were all saying the same thing about the beautiful performance and flocked to X to sing their praises.

Leanne wrote: "That was absolutely stunning, had me a bit emotional."

Maire said: "Blu and Simone best dance of the night! That was powerful."

Paula gushed: "That was amazing. Such a powerful routine. Fabulous Josh!"

Aoife added: "Josh was brilliant there, powerful dance, really believed the story he told from being Blu to Josh."