A 'QUICK-FIX' energy saving solution that promises to cut bills could actually turn out to be life ruining.

Installing insulation around the home is a well-known way to stop heat loss and reduce gas and electric costs.

1 The first snow the winter covers the roof-tops of Newcastle city centre today (Tuesday). PHOTO OWEN HUMPHREYS/PA Credit: PA:Press Association

Loft roll, cavity wall and underfloor insulation are some of the options, while DIY measures like window tape and foam lagging for pipes can be cheaper but effective.

But one method - spray foam insulation - could leave households unable to sell their home or get a mortgage.

The method could also leave people thousands of pounds out of pocket to fix and even slash the value of your home.

One couple affected have said they're lives "fell apart" after the insulation was installed in their loft and they later found it was unsalable.

The Sun revealed how lenders are routinely rejecting mortgage applications for houses with spray foam insulation in the roof, affecting an estimated 250,000 homes.

While it's not illegal, it must be done by professionals and is only suitable in certain circumstances.

Rogue traders are taking advantage of older and vulnerable people who are desperate to reduce their rising gas and electric bills.

Wales Against Scams Partnership (WASP) has warned that it has seen a spate of these chancers misleading older people worried about their bills.

The method "can all too often be marketed as an easy and simplistic fix, the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) said in a report last year to help consumers.

"In fact the installation of spray foam should really be seen as a significant and fundamental alteration to a home which needs careful consideration and planning," it added.

How to cut energy costs and get help with FOUR key household bills

WASP said one person targeted was talked in to spending £3,500 on spray foam, only to find they were unable to sell their house.

Spray foam insulation risks There are several risks with spray foam insulation, according to the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) RICS advises consumers to carry out appropriate checks on the material being used, as there are different types of spray foam, and to be aware of the risks involved. Anyone considering the insulation should using independent experts, who are both commercially and independently separate from the installer and manufacturer. Hidden problems - It can make it difficult to spot other issues with the roof, as it restricts the view of the space, for example roof damage from storms or a leak. Damp and condensation - Poorly installed insulation can lead to dampness and uncontrolled condensation which can cause damage. Once installed, the measures are not easy or cheap to reverse. Removal from a typical three-bed home could cost anywhere between £3,000 and £4,000, depending on how much foam there is to dispose of, says Ollie Creevy, managing director of Insulation Advisor. Read RICS full guide for consumers at www.rics.org/news-insights/rics-release-new-spray-foam-consumer-guide.

They were forced to spend another £2,000 to remove it and by the time they put it back on the market two months later the value of the property had fallen by £15,000.

Sam Young, policy officer at charity Age Cymru and head of WASP, said: “We understand that many older people are worried about how they are going to pay their fuel bills this winter and as a result may be even more vulnerable to rogue traders.

“Previous studies have shown that older people are the most likely age group to be targeted by scammers, with data from National Trading Standards showing that 85% of victims of doorstep scams are over 65."

The group urged older people to seek expert advice first.

Rogue traders can often target older people on the door step, where they can use high pressure selling tricks to agree to an installation.

But cold calls are also a tactic used by cowboy installers, and there are also online adverts preying on people.

Tony Neate, chief executive officer at Get Safe Online, said: “Although traditionally you think of rogue builders approaching you on your doorstep, it’s also important not to be conned by online adverts. Before you commit, make sure you do your homework.

"Check that the builder is reputable by looking at reviews, and ensure your mortgage provider agrees with any alterations you’re thinking of doing.”