The retailer is also selling a major hairdryer dupe

BIG CUTS Major boost for Irish shoppers as Aldi slashes prices on 81 new products in ALL stores

ALDI Ireland has announced more price cuts on a range of popular products in a big boost to shoppers.

The retailer has lowered the cost of another 81 in stores across the country.

1 Aldi made the announcement this morning Credit: Peter Byrne/PA Wire

Aldi has now cut the prices of over 230 products so far this year.

Among the products reduced are shopping basket favourites from across Aldi’s bakery, dairy, meat, confectionery, drinks and household ranges, including fresh chicken, beef, lamb, fish, bread, cooking ingredients, deodorant and wine.

The cuts will not impact on the prices paid to any of its suppliers.

Aldi recently announced that it spent €1.1billion with its network of more than 330 Irish suppliers last year, including signing a number of new supplier contracts worth more than €40million.

Managing Director of Buying and Services, Colin Breslin said: “In 2024, we continue to focus on providing our Irish customers with great quality products at the lowest possible prices.

“Last month, we implemented almost 150 new price cuts as we reaffirmed our commitment to our customers to continue reducing prices as and when we can.

"Today, we’re cutting the prices on a further 81 products, bringing the total number of products we’ve cut prices on this year up to 230.

“Our commitment to our customers remains as it has always been – we will provide the best value in the market, and will not be beaten on price.

"Today’s announcement is yet another demonstration of that commitment.”

Meanwhile, Aldi fans are rushing to buy a major hairdryer dupe - and it's €380 cheaper than the original.

Aldi fans are scrabbling to pick up £5.99 bathtime Laura Mercier dupe - that normally costs £45

The supermarket unveiled the new item online and it is set to be a massive hit with shoppers.

The Visage Ionic Hairdryer has hit the middle aisle for just €19.99.

The sleek and stylish hairdryer allows for concentrated airflow to dry your hair efficiently and effectively.

It features an ionic function, three heat and two-speed settings, and a cool shot button.

The cool shot button helps to protect your hair by drying it at a lower temperature.

It's available in Navy and Gold or Pink and Grey.

The bargain hairdryer is a dupe of Dyson Supersonic hairdryer, priced at €399.99 - meaning beauty fans save €380 with Aldi's version.

It's available to purchase in stores nationwide from February 25.