AFTER much-loved coach Olly Murs was axed from The Voice UK, fans were left scratching their heads as to who on the pop scene could replace the singer.

While country music superstar Leann Rimes is in final talks to take over from Anne-Marie, Olly’s chair alongside Sir Tom Jones and Will.I.Am still remains open.

5 Emma Willis will be back for her 11th stint as host when filming begins later this month Credit: Getty

5 Olly Murs has been axed from the talent show Credit: Splash

And that’s because Olly won’t be replaced by one star — as I can reveal bosses are instead in talks with famed Duos.

It means for the first time there will be a spinning sofa alongside the famous red chairs.

A source said: “This marks an exciting new change for the show that will shake up the format and keep it fresh as it moves into a new era.

“Having a famous duo is an exciting new concept which means the coaches will be able to support more groups who audition.

“Bosses are talking to a number of combos including stars who have performed together, are mates, were in girl or boy bands and also producer/talent combos.

“The industry is broader than it has ever been and execs want the coaches to reflect that — the chart isn’t just pop, rock and RnB any more.

"Everything is still all to play for to ensure The Voice gets the strongest line-up possible.”

I revealed last month how double Grammy winner LeAnn, had met with execs in Manchester to discuss joining the show.

But while it is all change on the coaching panel, Emma Willis will be back for her 11th stint as host when filming begins later this month. She took over the reins from Holly Willoughby in 2014.

Last year we revealed that Olly and Anne-Marie had been given the boot as ITV worked to give the show a fresher feel.

Olly admitted he was gutted at finding out he’d lost the gig — so I’m sure he’ll find solace in the fact ITV needs two names to replace his one.

MUM’S THE STAR FOR SAM

PALS of The Apprentice wheeler-dealer Sam Saadet were convinced she’d signed up to compete in the reboot of Gladiators when she snuck off to film the business series.

The Essex fitness instructor was away from home as she competed to win Lord Sugar's cash investment.

5 The Apprentice's Sam Saadet thought she’d signed up to compete in the reboot of Gladiators Credit: PA

And when she refused to reveal why, her family were totally convinced she’d taken on The Eliminator instead – especially as her mum Wendy Famiglietti was on the show in 1997.

Sam said: “It was really funny some people thought that because I’m not that fit!

“My mum got through to the finals, it made me so proud.

“I am a massive advocate of being a strong woman for my daughters, just like my mum was for me and my sisters.”

THRILLED bosses at ITV have renewed The Masked Singer for a sixth series after Saturday’s finale landed bumper viewing figures.

Joel Dommett's wacky guessing game beat new kid on the block Gladiators, with 5.4m viewers watching as Piranha was crowned the winner.

AJ TAKES TURN AT WHEEL

AJ ODUDU could be in the money on the Wheel Of Fortune.

The Big Brother presenter looks to have gone from zero to hero after trying her luck on Graham Norton's classic gameshow.

5 AJ Odudu tried her luck on Wheel Of Fortune Credit: ITV

Teaser photos show AJ climb from a measly £0 up to a £2,550 jackpot for her chosen charity.

But she’ll have to keep hold of the cash until the end of the show in order to keep the prize pot.

AJ, who will be back on ITV next month alongside her co-host Will Best with their reboot of Celebrity Big Brother, joins fashion expert Gok Wan and singer Charlotte Church to spin the famous wheel.

Graham has won viewers over with his revamp, so far attracting solid ratings.

Celebrity Wheel Of Fortune will be broadcast on ITV1 at 6pm on Saturday.

TIME TO HIT WEST END, JAY

JAY BLADES will again be heading back Through Time . . . to take a close look at London’s West End.

In the Channel 5 two-parter, which is set to air later this year, he will meet historians to discover how London’s theatreland was shaped by its connections to royalty, power and wealth.

5 Jay Blades will take a close look at London’s West End in Through Time Credit: Getty

Along the way, The Repair Shop host will learn about a Roman sarcophagus at St Martin-in-the-Fields church in Trafalgar Square, plus the recycled old royal candles housed at Fortnum & Mason and the story of how angry East Enders stormed the Savoy Hotel during the Second World War.

Jay said: “I love uncovering extraordinary facts about where we live.

"Like me, viewers will be blown away by some of the revelations.”

In his Through Time series Jay has already explored East London, where he was born and raised – and the Midlands, where he now lives.

FANS of Countdown’s Susie Dent are in for a treat as the word guru has landed a pilot for her own show.

She hosts Unspeakable alongside comic PHIL WANG, where they challenge guests to help create the new ultimate dictionary. Listen on BBC Sounds’ Radio 4 page.

LUVVIES’ SITCOM BINNED

The BBC has ditched comedy series The Goes Wrong Show.

The sitcom, about a succession of disastrous theatre shows performed by a troupe of amateur thesps from the fictional Cornley Polytechnic, ran for two series on BBC One.

But the show’s co-creator and star Henry Lewis said it’s a little too pricey for the Beeb to make.

He said: “It was a very expensive series to make and clearly the BBC want to spend their money on other things. But our theatre show, The Play That Goes Wrong, will continue.”

The two series were preceded by one-off episodes including Peter Pan Goes Wrong and A Christmas Carol Goes Wrong.

Henry will be kept busy with his other role as the Riddle Master in Ranvir Singh's ITV1 daytime game show Riddiculous.

DAN’S BIG NEW ROLE

DANNY DYER is so desperate to “recalibrate” after his EastEnders exit that he’s swapped character Mick Carter’s slick wardrobe for a grandad cardigan.

My exclusive picture gives a first glimpse at Danny looking ever so frumpy wearing the old man’s clobber in new Sky series Mr Bigstuff.

He plays prescription drug addict Lee, who carries his dead dad’s ashes around in a biscuit tin and turns little brother Glen and his fiancée Kirsty’s lives upside down when he returns from being on the run.

Danny – whose character Mick is presumed dead in EastEnders after vanishing at sea – told me: “Following my nutty exit, I feel like it’s time to recalibrate and try something new.

“I was honoured to be asked to develop an exciting character and explore his dysfunctional, f***ed-up family.”

The six-part comedy, which is due to air on Sky and Now this spring, was written by Brassic’s Ryan Sampson, who also stars as Lee’s sibling Glen.

Ryan said: “As a particularly short, gay dude, I’m fascinated by masculinity – by all the ways that we’re trying and failing to do it right.

“Maybe it’s because of some unresolved short-man issues.

“I probably should have got therapy, but instead I’ve written a show about it.

“And I’m lucky in having Danny joining me for the ride.”