BRITS are braced for flooding and travel chaos after the Met Office warned issued a yellow warning for heavy rain.

4 The Met Office have issued a yellow warning for heavy rain Credit: Met Office

4 Cambridgeshire on Monday morning after the River Great Ouse burst its banks

4 The River Nene breached its banks in Peterborough, Cambs, on Saturday Credit: Paul Marriott

Torrential rain saw rivers burst their banks and roads cut off as millions were caught in deluges over the weekend.

Now, meteorologists have warned outbreaks of rain and windy weather are due to push through the UK in the coming days.

The Met Office have issued a yellow weather warning for rain affecting parts of South West England and Southern Wales.

The warning is in place from midnight until noon on Wednesday, February 21.

Rainfall could reach as much as 70mm in areas of higher ground, according to the Met Office.

Forecasters warned that people in affected areas could expect spray and flooding on roads.

This will make journey times longer and there will likely be some interruption to power supplies and other services.

A few homes and businesses can also expect to become flooded while bus and train services will be impacted, with journeys taking longer.

The warning from forecasters read: "Heavy rain will spread across Wales and southwest England from early on Wednesday morning.

"Rainfall amounts will widely reach 15-25 mm, with as much as 50-70 mm over higher ground.

"With saturated ground in places, this is likely to lead to some disruption. Rain will clear to the east by the afternoon."

Today's weather will see a band of rain push south and east across the country.

Towards Monday afternoon things will have cleared a little but more wet and windy weather is due to arrive from the north-west on Tuesday, the Met Office said.

Temperatures will remain mild in most parts of the country as the soggy blanket of cloud keeps the UK from getting too cold.

At least 64 flood warnings were in place as of Monday morning, while 248 less severe flood alerts have been issued across the country.

Authorities warned flooding from rivers is likely to affect parts of the south of England, the east of England and the Midlands today, continuing into Tuesday and Wednesday.

“Land, roads and some properties could flood and there could be travel disruption,” said the Environment Agency.

The warnings come with rain falling on already saturated ground after a weekend washout.

All of England and Wales was subject to severe weather warnings from the Met Office over Saturday and Sunday due to heavy rain.

Monday will see highs of 14C in London, 13C in Hull and 10C in Glasgow.

Tuesday is set to be a cloudier day but remaining dry for many, but the Met Office are warning some areas will see the odd shower.

Sadly the drier weather is not expected to last long as more unsettled weather is expected to roll in on Wednesday.

Longer spells of rain and stronger winds are expected to batter much of Britain but by Wednesday afternoon it should turn brighter and drier.

More rain is expected on Thursday.

Meanwhile, forecasters are predicting that snow could soon be on the cards after a weekend of unsettled weather.

The Met Office long range weather forecast predicts conditions will be colder in certain areas from February 23 to March 3.

And there is an increasing chance of some snow showers developing, particularly in the north.

Meteorologists added that any snow is likely to be "restricted to hills" in the northern areas of the UK.

Although temperatures will be "around average" for the time of year, it may be "rather cold in the north" with overnight frost most likely here, say forecasters.

The Met Office said February 23 will see showery conditions across the country with windy weather.

Forecasters added: "A generally unsettled pattern is most likely through to early March bringing spells of rain across all areas at times, wettest in the west and northwest, and occasionally windy too.

"Temperatures generally around average though some short-lived colder interludes are possible.

"These more likely in the north which may allow snow to fall to lower levels at times."