She'll put on an incredible performance of her greatest hits

ELLA Henderson will shock the Love Island villa when she makes a special appearance tonight.

Singer Ella, 28, surprises the All Stars with a VIP pool party as their time on the ITV2 show draws to a close.

5 Ella Henderson will make a special appearance on Love Island tonight Credit: Rex

Maya Jama's boyfriend Stormzy will enter Love Island All Stars villa TONIGHT for live final surprise

Waking up to their final day, the finalists receive a surprise text.

Georgia Steel reads: “Finalists, get ready to make a splash as you’re invited to a VIP All Stars pool party #GlamAndGlisten #TooPoolForSchool."

Strutting into the villa, Ella puts on an incredible performance, surprising the Islanders with renditions of her hits React, Ghost and her brand new single, Alibi.

But The X Factor alum isn't the only musical sensation entering the villa during tonight's finale.

Maya Jama's boyfriend Stormzy will make an unexpected cameo on the show to support her after he arrived in South Africa at the weekend.

According to Mail Online, he will be in the audience to cheer on Maya and the show's winner after they are crowned this evening.

An insider told the publication: "Stormzy has flown to South Africa to be by Maya's side during the Love Island: All Stars final.

"It's no secret that he's a huge fan of the show and he knows how much it will mean to Maya, as well as the cast and crew, to show his face.

"Maya and Stormzy don't often join each other at work but when they can, it's something they love to do.

"His presence in the audience during the live final is a show first and will definitely add to the excitement of the night."

Tonight's final sees five All Stars couples in the running for the crown.

Georgia Harrison and Anton Danyluk, Sophie Piper and Josh Ritchie, Callum Jones and Jess Gale, Molly Smith and Tom Clare and Georgia Steel and Toby Aromolaran have all made the final.

The Sun has contacted a show spokesperson for comment.

Love Island All Stars airs every Sunday to Friday at 9pm on ITV and ITVX.

Keep up to date with the latest news, gossip and scandals on our celebrity live blog

5 She puts on an incredible performance of her greatest hits Credit: Rex

5 The Islanders look like they're having a great time Credit: Rex

5 Ella surprises the All Stars with a VIP pool party Credit: Rex

5 The singer poses with the cast for a selfie Credit: Rex

Listen to all our Love Island podcast episodes: