Road diversions are in place this morning

GARDA PROBE Young man rushed to hospital with serious injuries after hit-and-run in Dublin

A MAN has been rushed to hospital with serious injuries after a hit-and-run early this morning.

The victim, aged in his 20s, was struck by a car near Heuston Station on St. John’s Road West, Dublin 8 at around 4am.

1 Gardai are appealing for witnesses to contact them Credit: Alamy

The driver of the car failed to remain at the scene.

The pedestrian was rushed to St James' Hospital to be treated for his injuries.

A garda spokesperson said: "Gardai at Kilmainham are appealing for witnesses following a serious hit-and-run road traffic collision that occurred on St. John’s Road West, Dublin 8, this morning, Sunday, 18th February 2024.

"Shortly after 4am, the gardaí and emergency services were alerted after a pedestrian was struck by a car near Heuston Train Station on St. John’s Road West.

"The motorist failed to remain at the scene.

"The pedestrian, a male in his 20s, was taken by ambulance to St. James’ Hospital, where he is being treated for serious injuries.

"The scene is currently under examination by local scene of crime officers, and traffic diversions are in effect."

Anyone with information on the incident is asked to contact gardai.

They added: "Gardai are appealing to anyone who may have witnessed this incident or has any relevant information to come forward and assist with the investigation.

"Those with camera footage (including dash cam) of the location at the time are asked to make this available to investigating gardai.

"Anyone with information is asked to contact Kilmainham Garda Station at 01 6669700, the Garda Confidential Line at 1800 666 111, or any Garda station."

CRASH TRAGEDY

Elsewhere, gardai have appealed for information after a six-year-old girl died in hospital days after a horror crash.

The collision happened on the M6 eastbound in Co Westmeath on February 8.

The child was rushed to Temple Street Hospital with serious injuries.

In an update today, gardai said she passed away yesterday - nine days after the crash.

Gardai are appealing for anyone with information on the collision to contact them.

A spokesperson said: "Gardai at Mullingar continue to investigate a serious single-vehicle road traffic collision that occurred shortly before 4pm on Thursday, February 8th, 2024, on the M6 eastbound between Junction 4 (Tyrellspass) and Junction 3 (Rochfortbridge) in County Westmeath.

"A six-year-old girl, who was a passenger in the car and suffered serious injuries, was pronounced deceased at Children's Health Ireland at Temple Street on Saturday, February 17th, 2024.

"The Coroner has been notified, and arrangements are being made for a post-mortem examination.

"Two other occupants in the car at the time, a man in his 40s and a boy aged 9 years, escaped serious injuries.

"Gardai in Mullingar are renewing their appeal for witnesses.

"Those with camera footage (including dash-cam) from the M6 between Junction 3 and Junction 4 at the time of the collision are urged to provide this footage to investigating Gardaí.

"Anyone with information is requested to contact Mullingar Garda Station on 044 938 4000, the Garda Confidential Line on 1800 666 111, or any Garda Station."