JOSIE Gibson returned to This Morning today and was flooded with support after missing out on the lead presenter role to Cat Deeley.

The fan favourite star teamed up with Craig Doyle after it was announced Cat and Ben Shephard will take on the ITV show's main hosting duties from next month.

4 Craig Doyle and Josie Gibson hosted This Morning today

4 Josie returned after a break from the show

4 This Morning announced the news on Friday that Ben Shephard and Cat Deeley are taking over

Josie, 39, was welcomed back by viewers on Monday and many aired their frustrations over on X, formerly known as Twitter, as they hit out at the shake-up.

One wrote on the social media site: "Josie and Craig are the best pairing. #Thismorning they should have got the Gig."

"Love Josie & Craig - should’ve been the permanent presenters," another viewer reacted.

One more said about Cat and Ben: "Sorry but bad choice!

"Why should they get the job when someone Like Josie, Rochelle, Rylan, Craig etc can’t?

"They have worked there for years and earned their place!"

Last month Josie spoke about speculation over her whereabouts after fans wondered if had she quit This Morning.

She said on her Instagram Story: "Alreeet lovers, Just to confirm, I have not left This Morning.

"I keep getting asked why I've left, so I thought it's easier to clear up the rumour mill on here. I am eternally grateful for all your love and support and I can not thank you enough."

During her time away she shared a string of cryptic remarks and some thoughts about taking space from "drama".

This Morning’s Josie Gibson reveals stomach-churning new beauty treatment but fans claim she ‘looks amazing’

She posted another quote on her Story that read: "The older you get the more you choose calm over conflict and distance over disrespect.

"Drama becomes intolerant to you and your peace becomes your ultimate priority.

"You start surrounding yourself with people who are good for your mental health, heart and soul."

It comes after The Sun's exclusive story revealed Cat and Ben had been secretly recruited in December as permanent replacements for Holly Willoughby and Phillip Schofield.

This Morning confirmed the news on Friday and aired a trailer that teased their arrival next month.

Brummie broadcaster Cat, 47, and Good Morning Britain star Ben, 49, also shared statements expressing their excitement.

Ben said: "This really feels like a very special moment for Cat and I to be part of the next chapter of This Morning.

"It’s an honour to be trusted with the reigns, join Alison and Dermot and all the team that work on and off screen and do such a great job.

"For the last ten years I’ve been waking up with our ITV daytime audience on GMB and I now look forward to spending time with Cat, welcoming the viewers home after the school run or from their early morning routines, with a cup of tea and a mix of everything that makes This Morning so loved."

Cat added: "This Morning is a national institution.

LESS MONEY

"Whenever it’s on, it’s like having your friends over - funny, smart, silly, heartfelt, informative and joyful - like all the greatest friendships!

"This Morning is and always will be the viewer’s show.

"Ben and I both know how much people love it, and with the help of an amazing team of people, we’re going to do our best to take care of it."

The Sun revealed that the pay for the new duo is understood to be around £550,000 each — £150,000 less than Holly and Phil.

It comes after weeks of wrangling over contracts and speculation Cat was being forced to quit her presenting role in the US.

She has hosted So You Think You Can Dance? since 2006.