SHOPPERS hoping to invest in a haircare hero tool from Dyson are in luck because online retailer eBay is slashing the prices of some of the brand’s most coveted items.

There are hundreds of products included in eBay’s refurbished sale event, but it’s the rare savings on the Dyson Airwrap and Dyson Supersonic devices that shoppers will be racing to snap up.

1 Treat yourself to some new hair tools from Dyson in the flash sale Credit: DYSON

Save 25% on refurbished Dyson products with code: BUYBETTER25 - shop here

From 16 February until midnight today (19 February), deal-hunters will be able to indulge in generous discounts across a range of top-tier brands including Ninja, Panasonic, Simba, and of course Dyson.

Using the discount code: BUYBETTER25 at the checkout, Dyson fans will be able to get 25% off selected refurbished models in the flash sale.

Deals include savings on the Dyson Airwrap Complete, which usually retails for £479.99, but the refurbished model costs £399.99 which is already a saving of £80.

But with the 25% discount, the price drops to £299.99, which is a huge saving of almost £180 on the normal RRP of the popular device.

Savvy shoppers can also find more deals on refurbished Dyson hair devices including the bestselling Supersonic hair dryer, which will no doubt fly off the shelves thanks to a hefty £210 saving on its original price of £329.99 in the event.

You can even score 25% off the refurbished Dyson Corrale™ hair straightener in the sale too.

But it’s not just the groundbreaking hair tools from Dyson that are on offer during the flash sale.

Bargain-hunters can also take advantage of discount code savings across Dyson’s range of refurbished state-of-the-art vacuum cleaners, or look to invest in the sleek design of the Dyson Pure Cool air purifier at a fraction of the RRP.

If you are looking to upgrade your personal or home appliances while keeping a firm grip on your budget, the eBay sale is the ideal shopping destination.

But the clock is ticking on the opportunity to score premium products as the flash sale is only on for the next 48 hours and we’re sure many popular items will sell out fast.

Visit the eBay Refurb Event to browse the huge variety of discounted items available and use the discount code to unlock the 25% savings.

Want to find more savings on your online shopping? Then head to Sun Vouchers where you can get discounts and voucher codes from hundreds of top retailers including B&Q, Boots, Iceland, Lookfantastic, Dunelm, Adidas, Marks & Spencer and more.