EILEEN Dunne became the victim of the first dance off on Dancing With The Stars last night.

The retired news reader lost out in a tie with Rosanna Davison with judges Arthur Gourounlian and Brian Redmond both deciding to save the former Miss World.

4 Former news anchor Eileen Dunne said goodbye to DWTS tonight

4 Eileen lost to Rosanna Davison in the first dance off of the season

Flanked by partner Robert Rowiński Eileen told The Irish Sun: "I was hoping to get to Orchestra Week next Sunday but we had a great run.

"We enjoyed every moment of it. It's been an incredible journey".

The 65-year-old, who anchored her last bulletin on November 18 2022, said former colleague Bryan Dobson had told her he was looking forward to seeing 'Eileen unleashed" after so many years having her anchor the news, and she didn't disappoint with a different hair style and fun outfit each week.

Eileen told us: "It certainly was Eileen Unleashed. I think I did myself and others proud so I'm happy with that".

The mum-of-one had scored 19 points for a Paso Doble as she swirled a cape around the floor.

Loraine said: "Going down on one knee in a long skirt, well done you. That's very brave.

"Few little steps went adrift there but not as many as last week so you did a good job."

Arthur said: "I have to say, when you were dancing you mesmerised me."

But it wasn't enough to save her.

Rival Rosanna Davison escaped elimination with a tango which judge Brian Redmond dubbed 'a bit soggy" but which scored 22 points.

‘Dancing on telly is like racing at Grand National’ – top Jockey reveals about DWTS

Rosanna said: "When there are a limited amount of couples left, we knew we could end up in a dance-off".

The show had started with Wild Youth singer David Whelan dancing a quickstep.

Arthur said: "You were like a Tasmian devil".

Brian said: "The second half was full of Wild Youth but you got over excited so watch your step".

Lorraine said : "A super stylish quick step".

David scored 26 points.

Paralympian Jason Smyth did a samba with pro Karen Byrne.

'NOT GROUNDED ENOUGH'

Arthur said : "Loosen up. Still a bit stiff".

Brian said: "You brought the sunshine".

Jason scored 23 points.

Safe from elimination after topping the scoreboard last week Davy Russell provided a second tango.

Lorraine: "A great tango but not technically clear".

Davy scored 23 points.

2fm DJ Laura Fox did a cha cha cha. Brian said: "Not grounded enough".

Lorraine said: "A great sassy chachacha". Laura scored 24 points.

Joshua Cargill gave drag queen Drag Queen Blu Hydrangea a night off for a Viennese Waltz which won a standing ovation.

Lorraine said "You bared your soul".

Arthur said : "An exquisite Viennese waltz". Joshua scored 29 points.

Six O'Clock show presenter Katja Mia did a Charleston.

Arthur said: "What a performance".

Brian said: "Energy in every step'. Katja scored 27 points.

It's Orchestra Week on DWTS next week.

4 Ru Paul Drag Race’s Blu Hydrangea and Partner Simone Arena scored the highest points of the night with their Viennese Waltz