ON March 8, the people of Ireland will go to the polls to decide if two changes should be made to our Constitution.

The changes are centred around changing the text in two areas — the role of the family and care.

3 Ireland will take to the polls on March 8 to to decide if two changes should be made to our Constitution

3 Senator Gerard Craughwell has argued the public should 'vote no' as the 'Government are not being honest'

3 Minister Roderic O'Gorman has urged the public to 'vote yes' as the constitutions wording 'doesn't fit with today's society'

The proposed change put forward on family will be to the current text’s description of the “institution of marriage, on which the family is founded, and to protect it from attack”.

That is proposed to be replaced with: “The State recognises the family, whether founded on marriage or on other durable relationships.”

The second change mooted is on care not being seen as the sole responsibility of women.

The new wording would say “that the provision of care, by members of a family to one another by reason of the bonds that exist among them, gives to society a support without which the common good cannot be achieved, and shall strive to support such provision”.

Below, Equality Minister RODERIC O’GORMAN and Independent Senator GERARD CRAUGHWELL go head-to-head with their arguments on the suggested changes to try to win your vote.

VOTE YES - 'WORDING DOESN'T FIT WITH TODAY'S VALUES'

Minister Roderic O'Gorman:

ON March 8, the people of Ireland will be asked to amend our ­Constitution in two very ­straightforward ways.

One change is to ensure that the Constitution recognises that not all families are based on marriage and another change aims to recognise that care at home isn’t only just done by women.

The first vote will update the definition of a family. Right now, Article 41 says a family is only based on marriage.

That means anyone who falls outside that definition is not ­considered a family.

We all know single mams and dads, and long-term couples ­living together, who we consider to be families.

Yet our Constitution says they’re not.

To fix this, we are saying a family can be based on marriage or “other durable relationships”.

That means a serious, sustained and committed relationship; it’s about bringing those people into the Constitutional protection.

No change is being made to the article that protects the ­special position of ­marriage.

This means that there won’t be changes to things like tax rules or inheritance.

There won’t be any change to something like child benefit, which is set out in ­separate laws.

The ­second vote is to change ­old-fashioned language in the Constitution about women.

Article 41.2 talks about women’s “life in the home”, and making sure mothers don’t “neglect” their “duties in the home”.

This view dates back to 1937 when it was passed. But it doesn’t fit with our values, or the reality of life today.

At the same time, we know that there is a huge amount of care provided by family members all across Ireland.

It is done by ­mothers – but also fathers, adult children looking after elderly ­parents, or people supporting family members with a disability.

That’s why you’ll be asked to replace the outdated language with a new section, one which says this Government and future governments have to do more to support care within families.

What the Irish Constitution says is important. It belongs to you. It belongs to all of us.

Only we as citizens get to say what it contains. And only we can change it. A Yes, Yes vote will simply bring it in line with life as it is now in Ireland.

It will give equality to thousands of families across Ireland, and ensure the central legal document of our State recognises a women’s place is wherever she wants it to be.

VOTE NO - 'GOVT IS NOT BEING HONEST, SO VOTE NO'

Senator Gerard Craughwell:

THE implications of the ­constitutional amendments are not clear, despite what the ­Government, State-funded NGOs, and opinion writers say.

On January 22, the bills enabling the double referenda moved to the Seanad.

After the Government ignored recommendations made by the Citizens’ Assembly, Senators were told no amendments would be accepted, and the guillotine would be used if required to end the debate by end of business on Tuesday.

Before the debate, the Free Legal Aid Centre recommended clarifying the wording. Ex-Tanaiste Michael McDowell criticised the Constitutional amendments.

He knows the law, whether you agree with him politically or not, but his concerns were dismissed.

If they are enacted, it will ­recognise families, whether founded on marriage or other durable relationships.

But what is a durable relationship?

Does that include polyamorous relationships or a ­mistress? This will be left to the courts to decide.

Why was it not revised to address these ­concerns? Running the referendums on International Women’s Day was the priority instead of getting it right.

One of my ­biggest issues with the new ­wording is it only requires the State to “strive” to protect the ­provision of care.

The Government has refused to create a legal obligation to ­provide all the supports listed in the assessment of need for a ­person with a disability; this exists in every other EU country.

They refused to ratify the Optional Protocol in the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities that would hold the State accountable.

The word “strive” indemnifies the State against any legal responsibility.

Two weeks ago, O’Gorman’s department refused to provide minutes of meetings with the inter-departmental group around the wording of the amendments and a letter from the NGO Treoir.

They said it would not be in the public interest until after the referendums, and it would violate legal precedents which prevent the Government using public funds to back one side of a referendum.

How can it be in the public interest to prevent the public from knowing why the new wording was chosen?

One can’t help but think this ­Government is not being honest and has something to hide — so vote No, No!