CHARLIE Bird has sent a heartbreaking "when I pass" message to his supporters this morning.

The former RTE journalist was diagnosed with Motor Neurone Disease in 2021.

2 Charlie Bird with his wife Claire & dog Tiger Credit: Fergal Phillips

2 Retired broadcaster Charlie Bird has given an update on his journey Credit: PA

He has been keeping his followers updated on his journey while "extending the hand of friendship" to countless charities across Ireland.

Charlie, his wife Claire and dog Tiger have been attending events across the country.

And taking to social media today, he said: "Last year I asked when I pass would you keep supporting Claire and Tiger with extending the hand of friendship to people in dark places.

"I got a great response. Where I am now in my journey, I want to repeat the call. I love you all." - with love heart emojis.

A number of his followers commented underneath the post and said they are thinking of Charlie and his family.

One wrote: "Charlie, I’ll be keeping you and your family in my thoughts and prayers.

"You’ve done such important work - raising funds, raising awareness, consistently sharing reminders to help one another in the darkest hours.

"Your messages are important; they will be remembered. Warm wishes."

Another said: "Charlie, we are all thinking of you and Claire and Tiger & will do as you have asked.

"Thank you for all have done."

WHAT IS MND? MND is a rare condition. MND affects specialist nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord, causing the function of motor neurons to break down. It stops messages from motor neurones reaching muscles. Everyday activities become increasingly difficult or completely impossible. Over time, the condition progressively worsens as the muscle weakens and can visibly waste. The majority of those diagnosed with the disease are given a three-year life expectancy starting from when they first notice the symptoms. However, life expectancy varies depending on the type of MND. Those with bulbar onset MND or progressive bulbar palsy (PBP) are told they may have between six months and three years left, starting from symptoms onset. But those with progressive muscular atrophy (PMA) may get more than five years. Kennedy’s disease - which is not a type of MND, but has similar symptoms - does not change average life span. People can still defy the average life expectancy rate - Stephen Hawking was told he had two years to live, but carried on for another 50 years.

Someone else said: "Charlie, you've been such an inspiration over the last few years. Claire and Tiger will be supported, with much love."

Last week, Charlie told how he can't get in or out of bed by himself as his health has "changed completely".

He said: "My heath has changed completely.

"I now have to be hoisted in and out of bed.

"I want to thank my neighbours and carers for all they are doing for me.

"I was honoured I was able to join the Stardust relatives yesterday marking the 43rd anniversary of that dreadful night."

Charlie climbed Co Mayo's Croagh Patrick along with over 1,000 people across 241 locations and raised a whopping €3.6million for charity in 2022.

The icon has been hailed for his work in spreading awareness of MND, with a record €4.5million raised for the disease last year – partially due to the climb.

Over €3million was raised and split between the Irish Motor Neurone Disease Association and suicide charity Pieta.

He set up the Climb with Charlie campaign following his own diagnosis with Motor Neurone Disease to help and show support for everyone who has to climb their own physical and mental mountains in their daily lives.

With thousands more taking part around the world.

Charlie said: "I am truly humbled and inspired that so many thousands of people took part in Climb with Charlie events across the world.

"I want to thank people all across the country for their incredible support throughout this journey.

"All of the generous donations will go to the two charities which are so close to my heart.

"It is an amazing gesture of support for me and my family.”

Ryan Tubridy, singer Daniel O’Donnell and former champion boxer Barry McGuigan were among the thousands who took part in the climb with Charlie.

Climb With Charlie was also shortlisted in the World Public Relations and Communication Awards.