DANCING With The Stars jockey Davy Russell has told how every Sunday is like a Grand National when he takes to the dance floor.

The 44-year-old is now top of the leader board meaning he’s exempt from tonight’s dance-off — but he faced elimination just a few weeks ago ­following a ­disastrous samba.

3 Davy opened up about the injury that almost ended his career Credit: Barry McCall Photographer

3 Jockey Davy Russell and his Partner Kyle Vincent during Dancing with the Stars Credit: Kyran O Brien

3 he revealed why he was 'offended' over the show Credit: Kyran O Brien

And Davy compares his incredible DWTS turnaround to his return to racing after he broke his neck following a horror fall in the Munster ­National in Limerick in 2020.

Davy told The Irish Sun: “A lot of people questioned why I came back after breaking my neck, a lot of people had me gone.

“I was finished and at 41, they said it was time enough for me and I hadn’t a load more to do. I suppose I could have retired but I wasn’t ready — and I didn’t want to retire due to injury.

“So I came back and I maxed it to the limit. My second last race was in The Grand National and my last race was in Aintree.

“So when I rode my last horse, I was happy to hand over the keys and I get the same adrenaline rush walking down the steps of Dancing With The Stars each Sunday.”

Davy recounted how a “lightning bolt” went through his thumb when he landed on his head at the race in Limerick in 2020.

A lightning bolt, or stinger, feeling occurs when a spinal nerve in the neck is squeezed.

He said: “Luckily the Order of Malta guy who reached me first knew immediately something was wrong.

“And when I explained about the lightning bolt through my thumb and the numb feeling he was trained to know this was something more than a dislocated shoulder.”

The Cheltenham Cup winner was then rushed to hospital.

He recalled: “I had movement in my toes but no ­movement of my hand. I remember wondering ‘is this my career over’.”

RTE DWTS star Blu Hydrangea has dancefloor nightmare as mic pack comes loose during routine

But Davy credits a surgeon at St Vincent’s Hospital, in Dublin, with putting him all back together.

The eye-watering process involved surgery on his ­spinal cord — via an incision made on his neck.

Davy explained: “First, I had to be put in a track like William Wallace (in ­Braveheart) being stretched before the torture chamber.

“And then they drilled bolts into my head and added water to pop my vertebrae back.

“Then they fused my two vertebrae together and replaced a vertebrae, they did all that through a slit in my throat.

“I ended up with a stronger neck than I had before the operation so that meant I could go back racing.”

Meanwhile, despite his long track career, which ended in December 2022, Davy has revealed he was never a betting man.

He told The Irish Sun: “My dad, growing up was a punter. He’d put a tenner or twenty on a horse.

“He’d give me a fiver to put on horse sometime but I’d always come back with the fiver or buy a bag of sweets. I never had an interest in betting, only in the horses.

“I love going to Cheltenham. I don’t drink but I love the craic and a sing song but I’d rather be at Cheltenham working than ­standing around like a spare part.”

Despite this Davy admits he was “offended” when a few weeks ago bookies were putting him at a massive 50/1 to win Dancing With The Stars.

He said: “Friends of mine were having great craic with my odds. At one stage they were threatening to have a Barney Curley (legendary Irish better) with my odds but the 50/1 odds did offend me.

“I suppose I’m competitive. Well if I walk to the shops I’m not competitive but I don’t think there is a non-competitive bone in my body.”

Davy and partner Kylee Vincent will dance a tango tonight — and he’s hopeful of impressing the judges yet again.

He joked: “You know it takes two to dance a tango so we’ll see what happens.”