EMILY Atack flashed her bare baby belly as she prepared for the Baftas in a posh hotel.

The Inbetweeners actress and stand-up, 34, who is expecting her first child, gave a glimpse at her very chilled set-up prior to the swanky awards bash.

5 Emily Atack flashed her baby belly as she got cosy at a posh London Hotel Credit: Instagram

5 The Inbetweeners actress, 34, enjoyed a night at The Savoy prior to the Baftas Credit: Instagram

5 The mum-to-be revealed her promotional gifts from GHD Credit: Instagram

Clearly eager to stay cosy, Emily booked herself into posh London hotel The Savoy for a snug night.

She captured a tasty burger dinner laid out on a table by the window looking out onto the London Eye, which she told was "not for mama sadly."

Later in the night, she showcased her gifted products from haircare range GHD before making the most of the venue's lavish bathrooms for a baby belly selfie

Emily lifted up her black top to showcase her growing tum as she posed for the mirror pic.

She finished off her look with comfy joggers and went make-up free as she smiled into the camera.

The Channel 4 star is soon set to welcome her first child with scientist Dr Alistair Garner, with their happy news announced last month.

The Sun then reported how her baby-daddy is in fact her step-cousin, who has been a part of her wider family for 30 years.

Alistair is the son of her late uncle – Dr Stephen Garner – who married Emily’s aunt Jane Robbins in 1994.

Recently, the star showed off her baby bump in a black sports bra.

Yet, keeping her fans up to date with her first maternity journey, she then told how she had become "very sick."

Vogue Williams, Emily Atack, Rochelle Humes & Laura Whitmore lead the way on glitzy red carpet for Glamour Awards

Last month, Emily told her followers: “Overwhelmed by the messages of support, thank you all. I’m stuck at home very sick.

“So your kind messaged really do cheer me up. So do M&S ginger biscuits, turns out.”

Alongside her words, Emily shared an image of her growing baby bump as she rested a cup of tea and a biscuit on it.

She is already five months pregnant and has moved in with Alistair as they prepare for their baby.

Back in December, she showed off the first picture of her bump.

Fans then speculated on the ways she had managed to conceal her baby belly as she kept her news secret initially.

5 Emily then posted a pre-Bafta bed selfie Credit: instagram