CHRISTINE McGuinness rushed her daughter Felicity to hospital on Saturday afternoon following an injury.

The TV star and mum-of-three, 35, took her youngest child to Macclesfield hospital after the seven-year-old sustained an injury while practising gymnastics.

5 Felicity (centre) was taken to A&E after an accident during gymnastics Credit: Refer to Caption

5 The star updated fans while she waited to get the all-clear for her daughter Credit: Instagram

Thankfully, Christine was quick to assure that her youngster was fine, sharing on Instagram a photograph of a sign from outside the hospital.

She wrote alongside the Stories post: “Currently spending my Saturday here though so [praying] hopefully I'll see you at the charity match tomorrow depending on how my little lady.

"Just a minor [fingers crossed] injury at gymnastics. She's made of strong stuff so we're good, just another day in the life of a mama!"

Christine later shared a positive update with the family back at home, holding up a bag of McDonald’s food as she posed in a mirror.

“All home. Mummy, McDs and extra snuggles on demand,” she declared. “NHS Macclesfield hospital were absolutely amazing and extra gentle with my girl today. Thank you."

She also credited a stranger’s act of kindness while Felicity, who has autism, was waiting to be seen.

"To the lady in the waiting area who gave my daughter sensory toys THANK YOU," she noted.

Christine has been open about her family’s lives with autism - after Felicity, nine-year-old twins Penelope and Leo and herself were all diagnosed.

Autism often causes disruption with social communication and interaction, with restrictive or repetitive behaviours or interests as those on the spectrum react and learn differently.

Christine was not diagnosed until she was 33 years old.

On Friday, Christine shared footage of herself in the midst of an ‘autism meltdown’ in her car.

“Understanding the spiral really helps, I hope the visual representation helps others too,” she explained, adding music helps centre her.

"(Every person is different and may feel differently, for me this is very accurate) be kind to yourself, remember it passes, it always passes."

The model added: "P.S, I am absolutely fine, I don’t want to worry anyone. And my feeling of ‘I don’t want to live anymore’ is more often like ‘I just want to disappear for a while’"

Keep up to date with the latest news, gossip and scandals on our celebrity live blog

5 Christine later credited a woman for helping her in the waiting room Credit: Instagram

5 All three of Paddy and Christine's children have autism Credit: Instagram