SHOPPERS are jumping up and down with excitement following the release of a new Cadbury chocolate bar.

The sweet treat is based on a Easter classic loved by the nation and chocoholics just can't get enough.

1 Chocolate fanatics are excited about a new Cadbury bar

The creme egg bar launched in December and has taken the confectionery world by storm.

Those who had tried the chocolate voiced their feedback on Facebook.

"I'm in heaven," wrote one, "Omg I luv it!! Had a few bars already lol," said another.

A third added: "My kind of chocolate bar!"

However despite the positive comments some weren't too pleased with new product.

One person complained: "The creme bars aren't a patch on the real creme eggs," and another agreed saving: "Same! Not a fan! Way to sugary, all i can feel is plain sugar in my mouth."

But a third praised the concept of the creme egg bar despite not yet buying one.

"I have not seen these in the shops (yet)! What a marvellous idea. Personally, I can't finish a whole Creme Egg: the goo filling is a tad too sickly.

"I could happily polish off the chocolate, mind you, and have no such issue with the caramel or ganache filled ones," they said.

It comes as Morrisons slashes price of Easter eggs to just 75p.

‘Run before they’re all gone’ M&S super fans urge after spotting brand new chocolate treat that beats classic Easter eggs

Easter eggs of the Maltesers, Cadbury Buttons, Smarties, KitKat, and Freddo varieties - and more - now cost just 75p at the stores.

One chocolate lover shared the good news with Facebook group Extreme Couponing and Bargains UK this week.

She wrote: "Easter eggs 75p morrisons with a more card."

A picture of the advertisement showed that the 96g to 129g Easter eggs had indeed been reduced in price from £1.50 to 75p for those with a More card.

Among the types of eggs included in the sale are, according to the photo, Cadbury Mini Eggs, KitKat, Smarties, Maltesers, Cadbury Buttons, Cadbury White Buttons, and Cadbury Freddo.