A BABY was found "murdered" in a home alongside a toddler girl and seven-year-old boy, police confirmed today.

The horror unfolded in Bristol on Sunday morning after police received a "concern for welfare call".

5 The children were found dead at the home on Sunday Credit: SWNS

5

A 42-year-old woman arrested on suspicion of murder is under police custody in hospital due to injuries sustained during the incident.

Avon and Somerset Police today confirmed the victims were a ten-month-old baby boy, a three-year-old girl and seven-year-old boy.

No names were released and a post mortem will take place in due course following the "deeply distressing" discovery, the force said.

The triple tragedy is believed to be an "isolated incident" with "no further risk to the wider community".

The Independent Office for Police Conduct has been informed as there was "prior police contact earlier this month".

A spokesperson said: "We have requested a paper referral with further information about the prior contact and once received, we will assess it to determine whether further action is required from us."

The death of such young children is a great shock to the whole community and this incident has had a profound and deep impact on all of us in the police. Chief Inspector Vicks Hayward-Melen

Neighbours said the two eldest kids attended the local Sea Mills primary school, which was closed this morning.

The school said: "Due to the tragic events in our community today, playgroup will be cancelled tomorrow morning.

"Our hearts go out to the family and their friends, neighbours, school friends and wider community."

The relationship between the suspect and the children has not been revealed by police.

A forensic tent could be seen in the garden of the home today close to a trampoline and other children's play items.

Chief Inspector Vicks Hayward-Melen said: "Uniformed officers from the neighbourhood policing team will be in the area in the coming days to provide reassurance and support to the local community, so please speak to us if you have any concerns or worries.

"It's important to stress we are treating this as an isolated incident and we don't believe there to be any ongoing risk to the wider community.

"We've been humbled by the community response to this tragedy.

"The death of such young children is a great shock to the whole community and this incident has had a profound and deep impact on all of us in the police.

"I know people will be eager to have answers, but the major crime investigation team are in the very early stages of what will be a highly sensitive, complex and thorough investigation, and it will take time to establish all the facts.

"We anticipate we'll need to carry out further inquiries at the scene for the rest of the week and there will be some cordons in place while we do this."

5 Chief Inspector Vicks Hayward-Melen speaks at a press conference today Credit: PA

5 Police swooped on the home in the early hours of Sunday morning Credit: PA