ALTON Towers has a secret "treetop" rule that you'll never have heard of - and it affects rollercoaster riders.

The theme-park giant based in Stoke-on-Trent, Staffordshire, has strict guidelines for all of its 40 rides and any more they want to build.

1 Alton Towers has a 'treetop rule' that no one knows about

Thousands of visitors travel to the UK's largest attraction each year - meandering through the small country lanes to get to the grounds.

Based in the middle of a handful of villages, it is a wonder how Alton Towers execs were ever given planning permission.

Despite sitting on 550 acres, bosses and their ride designers can't just construct whatever they want.

And that's because of a deal made with residents to ensure their views weren't ever obstructed.

A video circulating online revealed that any rollercoaster constructed must not be any taller than the trees.

The clip explained: “Did you know that Alton Towers can’t build any attractions that are taller than the tree height?

“This is why rides such as Oblivion and Nemesis are built into the ground.”

It went on to say the reasoning behind this was so “local residents are unable to see tracks from the roller coasters”.

John Wardley, who designed the much-loved Nemesis at the park, said his aim was to be as creative as possible - and the rule made sure of that.

He said: "We were instructed to keep everything below the height of the existing tree levels to keep in with the surroundings.

Inside Alton Towers, the UK's biggest theme park

“We quickly realised that we couldn’t go up [and] we needed to be creative due to the planning restrictions, so we built down instead.”

Nemesis is the first rollercoaster in the world to suspended riders underneath the track, rather than riding on top.

Alton Towers is currently closed for the winter season and will reopen on March 16 this year.

How much are tickets for Alton Towers? Advance Alton Towers tickets can start at: 1 Day Pass - £35

2 Day Pass - £48

Short break at the onsite hotel - £90 per family

Waterpark pass - £18

Golf 18 Holes - £6 On the day tickets start at: 1 Day Pass - £68

2 Day Pass - £80

Waterpark pass - £25

Parent and Toddler pass - £68

You can currently buy tickets online for when the rides are up-and-running again.

Through Sun Savers, you can unlock our Sun Superdays offer, which gets you two free tickets to Merlin attractions, including Alton Towers.