VOGUE Williams' fans rushed to defend her as she stripped down to her underwear to show off her bust.

The Howth native shared a video on her Instagram showing off the new bras she bought.

3 Vogue Williams got fitted for a new bra Credit: Instagram

3 Vogue was in stitches laughing as she showed off her boobs Credit: Instagram

3 Vogue's loyal fans defended her against negative comments Credit: PA

The model teamed up with Marks & Spencer to promote their bra fittings service.

Vogue was told she was a 30DD in bras and was very surprised.

She lifted up her green knit jumper to reveal her boobs and said: "Are you seeing what you're looking at? That? There's barely anything."

The mum-of-three asked the bra fitter for "as much padding as possible".

The podcaster tried on her new black bra and joked: "Have you ever seen such big boobs?"

She also confessed: "Like I was coming in here looking for a cami top. I didn't even think I needed a bra."

Vogue was chuffed with her new look and said: "Who am I with my big bazookas. I'm thrilled."

The 38-year-old ran around the shop floor looking for some "sexy bras" before heading home with her new purchases.

Vogue captioned her post: "BOOBS!!!! Well here we are, the bra fitting to end all bra fittings… I was thrilled to be told I’m a D, don’t let anyone tell you otherwise!

"I went for a fitting in @marksandspencer and I couldn’t believe how wrong I was in my bra size. I did wonder why my bra kept sliding up to the nips, I’m surprised it didn’t pop out of my top.

Cindy Crawford lookalike Vogue Williams sends fans wild as she shares major throwback in sweet tribute

"Bra fittings are free in @marksandspencer and the women fitting them are so lovely… I bet you anything you’re wearing the wrong size this is your sign to go get measured! AD."

However, Vogue caused a bit of a stir with her revelation as some people didn't believe her size was right.

Ciara said: "Every time I've being measured they have done it wrong. I am baffled you're a D. Like really?"

Another follower wrote: "You always bang on about having zero boobs. How on earth are you D?"

Vogue's fans rushed to the comment section to defend her.

Fiona commented: "I don't understand why people doubt her bra size. She literally showed us her new bra on, and it looked right."

Melissa added: "Omg so many drama comments over a bra fitting and pulling apart sizing. Since when was everyone armchair experts.

"90% of us walk around with the wrong bra size I'm sure. These comments prove it."