Commercial content notice: Taking one of the offers featured in this article may result in a payment to The Sun 18+. T&Cs apply.

WATCH OUT Win a stunning Audemars Piguet watch or £22,500 cash alternative from just 54p with our discount code

SUN readers can win a stunning Audemars Piguet Royal Oak Chronograph or a £22,500 cash alternative from just 54p with our discount code.

We have teamed up with 7days Performance to offer you a special discounted chance to win the watch this week.

ENTER NOW FOR 54p

1

The competition is open now and closes at 7.45pm Sunday 25th February with the draw available to watch live on Facebook at 8pm.

Tickets are normally 59p but Sun readers can claim a discounted price of 54p when you sign up and use promo code SUN10.

You can enter online, or with a postal entry.

Every competition has a limit on the number of entries, and each prize is guaranteed to be won regardless of the number of entries.

7days Performance have competitions almost every day for amazing prizes as well as massive cash jackpots. So far they have given away over £60million to more than 50,000 lucky winners.

ENTER NOW FOR 54p

Audemars Piguet Royal Oak Chronograph

Model Number: 26320ST.OO.1220ST.02

Original Box + Papers

Age: 2017

Case Size: 41mm

Movement: Self-Winding

Dial Type: Silver-toned Dial with “Grande Tapisserie” Pattern, White Gold Applied Hour-Markers and Royal Oak Hands with Luminescent Coating

Case Material: Stainless Steel

Bracelet Material: Stainless Steel

Water Resistance: 50 Meters

Experience the iconic Royal Oak, whose pioneering design and craftsmanship embody Audemars Piguet's uncompromising vision of luxury.

The octagonal bezel with its eight hexagonal screws have become the collections trademark.

This 41 mm stainless steel Selfwinding Chronograph is adorned with a silver-toned “Grande Tapisserie” dial which nicely complements the watch’s slenderer aesthetic bestowed by the latest Royal Oak design evolution.

Full terms and conditions can be found here