THE Prince and Princess of Wales are said to be considering a £47,000-a-year Oxford school for son Prince George, 10 - after ‘disagreeing’ over sending him to Eton.

The royal couple are said to have looked around the elite St Edward's School, also known as “Teddies” - which boasts Oppenheimer actress Florence Pugh as an alumna.

6 Prince William and Kate Middleton are reportedly considering St Edward's School in Oxford for Prince George Credit: Getty

6 St Edward's School, known as Teddies, is a mixed boarding and day school for pupils aged 13 to 18 Credit: Alamy

According to the Daily Mail, the co-educational, boarding and day school - which gives pupils aged 13 to 18 the chance to try their hand at screenwriting and beekeeping - has caught the eye of Prince William and Kate Middleton.

Richard Eden wrote: “'They've been to have a look,' a Teddies grandee tells me.”

The Prince and Princess of Wales have considered several schools for their eldest son including their alma maters Eton and Marlborough College.

Another front runner is said to be Oundle School in north Northamptonshire, The Mail on Sunday reported.

The independent co-educational establishment, founded in 1556, costs between £22,350 and £45,435-a-year.

The website reads: "We encourage aspiration and abhor arrogance, nurturing open minds, authentic self-belief and a sense of service."

This follows Kate reportedly being left "heartbroken" over Prince William's wish to send Prince George to Eton College when he turns 13, a royal insider has claimed.

Both Prince William and brother Prince Harry attended Eton College, which costs £15,432-a-term, breaking royal tradition because senior royals had previously attended Gordonstoun in north-east Scotland.

It's believed the mum-of-three isn't keen on same-sex schools such as Eton because she reportedly "absolutely hated" her time at Downe House, an all-girls boarding school in Berkshire, where she was allegedly bullied.

Speaking to In Touch Weekly, the source claimed Kate is "heartbroken" at the thought of sending her son to a boarding school because she was "horribly bullied" and "can't bear the thought of George suffering through that."

Kate Middleton ‘is making good progress’ after leaving hospital following abdominal surgery as she returns to Windsor

The source claimed that Kate and William have spent "years" arguing over the idea of sending their children to boarding school.

They added: "Kate thinks sending him to such a stuffy, upper-crust institution goes against all of their efforts to modernise the monarchy.

"Plus, she’ll miss George desperately.”

The Prince and Princess of Wales were also spotted taking a tour of Kate's old mixed-sex private school in Wilshire, Marlborough College, twice in two months, leading to speculation that they may be sending Prince George there rather than all-boys school Eton College.

Meanwhile Kate went to the exclusive Marlborough College between 1996 and 2000.

George, 10, Princess Charlotte, eight, and Prince Louis, five, all currently attend Lambrook, a co-educational day prep school.

Sending George to Oundle would allow both his siblings to join their brother at the same school.

6 Prince William is said to be keen to send Prince George to his school, Eton Credit: AP

6 Kate attended Marlborough College and the royal parents are said to have toured round it twice Credit: Simon Jones - The Sun

6 Kate went to the exclusive Marlborough College between 1996 and 2000 Credit: PA:Press Association