The child's death was one of several crash-related incidents at the weekend

A SIX-year-old girl who died in hospital nine days after a horror crash has been named.

Hannah Meshkat was a passenger in a car that was involved in a single-vehicle crash on the M6 in Co Westmeath shortly before 4pm on Thursday, February 8.

1 Gardai have renewed their appeal for witnesses to the crash that claimed Hannah Meshkat's life Credit: Garrett White - The Sun Dublin

The child, from Galway, was rushed to Temple Street Children's Hospital in Dublin after suffering serious injuries, but passed away there on Saturday, February 17.

A man in his 40s and a boy aged nine escaped serious injury in the collision, which happened between Junction 4 at Tyrellspass and Junction 3 at Rochfortbridge.

Gardai in Mullingar yesterday renewed their appeal for witnesses.

Those with camera footage (including dash-cam) from the M6 between Junction 3 and Junction 4 at the time of the collision are urged to provide this footage to investigating officers.

Anyone with information is requested to contact Mullingar Garda Station on 044 938 4000, the Garda Confidential Line on 1800 666 111, or any Garda Station.

It comes after a cyclist died after being struck by a car on the Malahide Road at Kinsealy, Dublin 17 shortly before 9.30am on Sunday morning.

The cyclist, a man in his 40s, was taken to Beaumont Hospital with serious injuries but was later pronounced dead.

The road was closed for a Garda forensic examination, while no other serious injuries were reported.

Gardai are also appealing for witnesses to that crash and anyone who may have footage and was travelling on the Malahide Road in the Kinsealy area between 9am and 9.30am yesterday is asked to make it available to gardai.

Anyone with any information is asked to contact Coolock Garda Station on 01 6664200, the Garda Confidential Line on 1800 666 111, or any Garda Station.

Hit-and-run appeal

Gardai are also appealing for witnesses to a hit-and-run near Heuston Station in Dublin 8 which left a man with serious injuries.

Shortly after 4am on Sunday, gardai and emergency services were alerted after the pedestrian, a man in his 20s, was struck by a car on St John's Road West near the train station.

The motorist failed to remain at the scene and the man was taken to St James's Hospital, where he's being treated for serious wounds.

Those with camera footage (including dash cam) of the location at the time are asked to make this available to investigating gardai.

Anyone with information is asked to contact Kilmainham Garda Station at 01 6669700, the Garda Confidential Line at 1800 666 111, or any Garda station.

In another incident at the weekend, a young man was killed in an early morning crash on the N10 in Foulkstown, Co Kilkenny on Saturday.

Single-car crash

The collision, which happened at around 3.25am, involved just one car.

The driver, a man in his 20s, was pronounced dead at the scene.

His body was taken to the mortuary at Waterford University Hospital, where a post-mortem was due to be conducted.

Investigating gardai are appeal to anyone who may have witnessed the collision to come forward and road users with camera footage (including dash-cam) from the area at the time are urged to provide it to them.

Anyone with information is asked to contact Kilkenny Garda Station at 056 7775000, the Garda Confidential Line at 1800 666 111, or any Garda station.

SUV hunt

Meanwhile, gardai are hunting a white SUV after a crash in Cork that resulted in the death of an "adored" local woman.

Tragic Sheila Dunne, from Glanmire, died in hospital on Tuesday, after being involved in a horrific collision at Sarsfield Court in Glanmire shortly after 7.45pm on Sunday, February 11.

Sheila, aged in her 50s, was taken by ambulance to Cork University Hospital for treatment of serious injuries but passed away "peacefully but suddenly" at the hospital, according to her devastated family.

The second occupant of the vehicle, a woman aged in her 40s, also received treatment for non-life-threatening injuries from the crash.

Gardai are appealing for any witnesses of the horrific collision to contact them.

In a statement yesterday, a Garda spokesperson said: "Any road users or pedestrians in the area of Sarsfield Court who saw a white SUV vehicle travelling in the area at the time of the incident are asked to contact the investigating Gardai.

"Anyone with information in relation to this incident is asked to contact Glanmire Garda Station at 021 455 6370, the Garda Confidential Line on 1800 666 111."