THE POPULAR alternative to Amazon's Fire TV Sticks are becoming increasingly difficult for consumers to get their hands on, according to reports.

And it has left people with little choice but to opt for the rival Fire TV Stick.

2 It has sparked fears that is signals Roku's decision to withdraw the product from the UK Credit: Roku

2 They are usually found in retailers like Argos, John Lewis and Currys - but all three of these stores list the Roku Express and Express 4K as out-of-stock Credit: Roku

While there is no shortage of Roku-branded smart TVs in stores, fans have flooded social media and the company's help forum about a nationwide stock shortage.

Like the Fire Stick, the Roku dongle is a USB-sized gadget that plugs into the HDMI port to beam a raft of streaming services onto the telly.

But according to customers over the past few months, the Roku Streaming Stick 4K, Roku Express, and Roku Express 4K are all unavailable in physical stores and on most websites.

It has sparked fears that is signals Roku's decision to withdraw the product from the UK.

"I'd quite like to upgrade my Roku to one with Dolby Vision, which leaves the Streaming Stick 4K as my only option.," one customer wrote in a community forum on Roku's website in December.

"Unfortunately it looks like no retailer is selling it anymore.

"Does anyone know whether it will return or if perhaps a new model is in the works?"

They are usually found in retailers like Argos, John Lewis and Currys - but all three of these stores list the Roku Express and Express 4K as out-of-stock.

Even the store finder on Roku's website shows no results.

“@Roku your devices are out of stock everywhere in the UK. Any chance they'll be back soon before I break down and get a Fire Stick?” one user wrote on X (formerly Twitter).

First look at UK's brand new free streaming service Freely from BBC and ITV that's set to shake-up TVs next year

Another tweeted: “Your Roku devices have been out of stock for almost 2 months now in the UK. What is going on?”

However, a spokesperson told GBNews that more devices are on the way.

The US streaming brand said: “We are currently experiencing shipping delays on Roku Streaming Players, and they are due to be back in stock later this month.

“We apologise for any inconvenience caused and remain committed to offering customers in the UK a seamless smart TV experience with Roku Streaming Players and Roku TVs.”