PREGNANT Emily Atack couldn't hide her baby bump as she posed in the bath after hitting the star-studded Baftas last night.

The TV star and comedian, 34, looked radiant as she relaxed in a tub full of bubbles.

3 Emily Atack looked cosy in the bath tub after hitting the Baftas last night Credit: emilyatack/Instagram

3 Emily cradled her baby bump on the Baftas red carpet earlier on Credit: Getty

3 Emily showed her followes the stunning cape dress on Instagram

The mother-to-be wore her hair in a bun and allowed her baby bump to peep through the water.

Emily beamed and appeared to have no regrets after skipping the Bafta's party attended by Kate Beckinsale and Florence Pugh.

She captioned the photo: "And now... the Bubble Bafta Party!"

The Inbetweeners actress earlier gave gave fans a glimpse of her outfit to the swanky bash.

Emily wowed in a teardrop chest that showed off her cleavage and a long flowing cape.

The comic is expecting her first child with scientist Dr Alistair Garner.

Emily and her boyfriend Dr Alistair Garner recently set up a home together to prepare for their baby’s arrival.

The actress only announced the pregnancy at the end of December in an Instagram post.

Inbetweeners star Emily Atack reveals she's pregnant with first child after finding love with nuclear scientist partner

Emily - whose baby is due in April - wrote: "Hello Everyone, it’s been a little while but I’m back with some news. I’m delighted to share with you all that we’re having a baby!!

“I’ve never been so happy and utterly terrified at the same time.

"Please go easy on me.

"Every day is mixed with thrill, fear, joy, hysteria, topped off with a lot of vomiting - a bit like when you’ve just stepped off of the Oblivion at Alton Towers on a hangover.

Emily shared a health update with fans as she approaches the final weeks before welcoming the new addition to her family.

She described feeling exhausted and dealing with heartburn but revealed the one thing that is helping her through the situation.

Taking to her Instagram Stories, she wrote: "Week 21 of pregnancy. Getting me through this week of utter exhaustion and hideous heartburn are these two."

She then tagged Ambika Mod and Leo Woodall in her post who are the stars of Netflix romance One Day.