BEING ruthless might describe Ireland’s Six Nations campaign to date — with Wales next in line to feel their wrath.

But Robbie Henshaw says the word is not plastered on any dressing-room walls, it is just embedded in their psyche.

2 Robbie Henshaw knows Ireland have to be able to bury any opponent

2 Wales have lost their opening two Six Nations games Credit: Getty

Two bonus-point wins away to France and at home to Italy — in which Ireland kept their opponents scoreless — have left Andy Farrell’s side on course to complete back-to-back Grand Slams.

Wales lost by one point to Scotland and two to England but the expectation is the home side will have a bit more to spare when they host Warren Gatland’s side next Saturday.

And Henshaw believes the unforgiving attitude towards opponents — which Italy coach Gonzalo Quesada likened to All Blacks teams from the past — is second nature to them.

The centre said: “The way we prepare and the way we play the game means that we’re expected to take our chances when we can.

“Ruthless’ isn’t plastered on the board in front of us here but the coaches expect us to be ruthless to take those chances and go after teams when we can and just to not let up I suppose.

“And that has been a thing but I wouldn’t say ruthlessness is plastered around the place. But the expectation of this team is to be the best we can be and take every opportunity.

“Even looking back to Italy, it was a tough game. We know they’re a tough team and we saw that last year.

“They have a really structured attack. We had to be ready for an even bigger attacking threat the week before against France — and Italy can play rugby and they have a really good shape.

“That’s why we were all switched on defensively and it was great that we didn’t concede against them.”

Henshaw was, naturally enough, respectful of Wales, although few expect the visitors to improve on a record of six defeats from their last seven meetings against Ireland.

Rugby fans praise 'best ref comment ever' as female official's brilliant quip gets instant respect in U20 Six Nations

The Athlone native — in line to win his 70th Ireland cap — said: “I know from playing against Welsh teams they’re unbelievably tough competitors and they’ll play for 80 minutes.

“They’re always close games and they never give up. Especially being led by Gatland . . . he’s a tough coach and he really can get the best out of his teams in terms of that mental and physical toughness. We’ve never had an easy game against them.”

And he is not expecting anyone in the camp to treat them lightly.

NO MERCY

The 30-year-old said: “You can’t leave any stone unturned and that comes down to the individual as well as the team.

“I think if there are a couple of guys, or a handful of lads, who are two or three per cent off in a game that has a massive impact a lot of the time when it comes to the final result.

“Sometimes there are big moments in big games, as you’ve seen at the last World Cup.

“The last few games were one-score games and that’s Test-level rugby. That’s pressure rugby and you just have to be clinical and take your chances.

“I think we’ve been unbelievable every week to make sure we’re performing. You can even have an average training session but you always have that review process to go through it and make sure you come in the next day to fix it.

“Even if things aren’t perfect in a training session it’s never the end of the world because you have that time to fix it.

“We’ve always been focused and really diligent on making sure every individual turns up every day ready to work and be better for the team.”

For Henshaw, there is a renewed relish at being at the heart of things — partnering Bundee Aki against France and Stuart McCloskey against Italy — after a frustrating World Cup.

It was not the manner of Ireland’s narrow exit to the All Blacks but the fact that he could play no part in it.

For the second successive World Cup, he went into it with an injury.

INJURY WOES

And, while he turned things around in 2019 to start twice, including the quarter-final in which he scored a try against New Zealand, this time around he suffered a second hamstring strain, having managed just a couple of appearances off the bench in between.

The former Connacht player said: “I wasn’t the best physically and mentally after the World Cup. I had to get myself right.

“I took a few weeks to make sure I came into Leinster and this campaign to be able to give it my all to get into the form I knew I could get.

“It’s been stop-start for me over the last year but to get this run of games always helps.

“I’m delighted my body’s in a good place and my game’s in a decent place.” That meant going against IRFU advice and heading to Qatar when most of his team-mates were putting their feet up.

Henshaw grinned: “Let’s call it a work-holiday kinda thing!

“I went to Aspetar Rehabilitation Clinic in Doha to do an intense week of rehab and training post-World Cup and got a holiday there.

“I got a different set of eyes on me, did some testing and had a strict programme they got me to work on.”

SOLID COACH

And his return to Leinster has brought a fresh pair of eyes in World Cup-winning coach Jacques Nienaber with the 31-year-old energised by what the South African can add to his game.

Henshaw said: “He’s a breath of fresh air in terms of his voice, his energy and how he gets on with the players as well.

“I’ve had a few conversations about what he saw when we were playing them . . .

“He was asking me certain things that I used to do on the pitch, whether something had been part of the plan in my game and I was saying ‘no’, it was instinctive stuff.

“In terms of the defence system, it’s going to take a while to implement it but we’re adding layers week on week.

“He’s really passionate about defence and getting the ball back. It gets us excited to defend as well.”