HEARTBREAKING videos show two siblings playing together at home before they were "murdered" alongside their baby brother.

Faris Alfil Bash, seven, Jory Alfil Bash, three, and baby Mohamed Alfil Bash were discovered at a house in Bristol on Sunday.

8 Faris and Jory could be seen playing together in a poignant video

8 Three-year-old Jory was found dead at the home

8 A post mortem will be carried out on the children

8

The tragic discovery was made after police were called to the property following a "concern for welfare".

A 42-year-old woman arrested on suspicion of murder is under police custody in hospital.

Tragic photos and videos show the children having fun together before they were "murdered".

In one poignant video, seven-year-old Faris can be seen singing and playing a red ukulele.

He is the joined by his sister, Jory, who puts a pink fluffy hat on him and dances on the sofa.

The three-year-old girl can also be seen beaming in a photo in front of a cake.

The horror unfolded at around 12.40am on Sunday as police swooped on the home in the Sea Mills area of Bristol.

It is believed to be an "isolated incident" with "no further risk to the wider community", police said.

The Independent Office for Police Conduct has been informed as there was "prior police contact earlier this month".

A spokesperson said: "We have requested a paper referral with further information about the prior contact and once received, we will assess it to determine whether further action is required from us."

Woman arrested for 'murder' after three kids found dead at home

A friend of mum Yasmin Ali, NHS worker Salwa Bashar, paid tribute to the three kids.

She told The Sun Online: "Her children were the most beautiful souls. Fasir is the most intelligent child I have ever met, He was courteous and always wanted to know how you were.

"He’d say to me - ‘How are you Salwa?’. “He was no ordinary child, and I always believed he was going to become an extraordinary adult, doing extraordinary things.

"It breaks my heart that he and his sister and little brother are no longer with us.

"What has happened just seems unbelievable. I cannot believe they are no longer with us."

Neighbours said the two eldest kids attended the local Sea Mills primary school, which was closed this morning.

It is understood the children's mum and dad, who are originally from Sudan, moved to the UK around seven years ago.

The death of such young children is a great shock to the whole community and this incident has had a profound and deep impact on all of us in the police. Chief Inspector Vicks Hayward-Melen

Locals say mum Yasmin was a "lovely person" and "great mother".

The relationship between the suspect and the children has not been revealed by police.

A forensic tent could be seen in the garden of the home today close to a trampoline and other children's play items.

Chief Inspector Vicks Hayward-Melen said: "Uniformed officers from the neighbourhood policing team will be in the area in the coming days to provide reassurance and support to the local community, so please speak to us if you have any concerns or worries.

"It's important to stress we are treating this as an isolated incident and we don't believe there to be any ongoing risk to the wider community.

"We've been humbled by the community response to this tragedy.

"The death of such young children is a great shock to the whole community and this incident has had a profound and deep impact on all of us in the police.

"I know people will be eager to have answers, but the major crime investigation team are in the very early stages of what will be a highly sensitive, complex and thorough investigation, and it will take time to establish all the facts.

"We anticipate we'll need to carry out further inquiries at the scene for the rest of the week and there will be some cordons in place while we do this."

8 Faris' school has been closed following the tragedy

8 Police remain at the home in the Sea Mills area of Bristol Credit: PA

8 Chief Inspector Vicks Hayward-Melen speaks at a press conference today