The mum also posted a poem to 'share some of what I have been feeling'

HOSPITAL UPDATE ‘Little angel’ girl struggling to recover after Parnell Square, Dublin stabbing ‘almost over bump in the road’

THE mother of a little girl seriously wounded in last year's Parnell Square incident has said her "little angel" is "almost over" a recent setback in her recovery.

The child, five, was readmitted to intensive care late last month after a "bump in the road", which had interrupted recent improvement in her condition.

2 The girl had been admitted to ICU after the Parnell Square incident in Dublin on November 23, 2023 Credit: Gary Ashe - Commissioned by The Sun Dublin

2 A man is before the courts in relation to the incident Credit: Gary Ashe - Commissioned by The Sun Dublin

She had initially been admitted to the ICU at Temple Street Children's Hospital following the knife attacks in Dublin on November 23, but was deemed well enough to leave before Christmas.

At the start of this year, the child had "entered the third phase of her recovery" and a medical team was "very happy with her improvement" before the unexpected "setback" in late January.

Her family has been providing updates on her condition through a GoFundMe online since last year.

The fundraiser, Barróg do Chailín Beag (A Hug For A Little Girl), has raised over €84,000 since it was created - way past its original target of €500.

As explained on the fundraiser page, Barróg "is the name of the teddy who has been keeping a special school seat warm" for the little girl.

In an update, the mum posted on it last Thursday, February 15: "Hi everyone, we are back on the ward and almost over this bump in the road.

"Our little angel is a fighter and we are sure she will come out victorious.

"We wouldn't be here had it not been for everyone on that day who gave her the fighting chance. We are forever grateful.

"And we are also grateful to everyone who has been dedicating their energy, day in and day out, to her and us.

"More updates soon."

Poem posted

Then, in a post last Saturday, February 17, the mother put up a lengthy post to "share some of what I have been feeling".

A poem, titled 'Land Of Memory And Hope', followed.

It read: "I live in a land of memory and hope

I close my eyes and I see you

I see every morning when you would wake up and walk towards me for a hug, even without being able to open your eyes properly

I see your eyes glisten when the swing jn the playground was free

I can picture every laugh, jump, word, tantrum, fall

I can feel your hugs, your love, your just for life

I can almost touch you... that is how much I remember of you

I remember everything

The good and the bad

The good was just so perfect

And so was the bad

The temperament, the looks, they were what made you YOU

I would call you crazy and clown

I would tell you how brave you were and how much I loved you

You never liked it when I called you brave

But you always believed me when I asked you: 'Do you know how much I love you?'

My memories are intact, fresh, almost palpable

My hopes are playing catch-up

I hope that I can hug you the way I used to

How you would look at me and trust that I could make it all better

My hopes are that you manage to, somehow, come out the other end YOU

I know that is a big ask

I will never be the same

My heart will break every time you ask me why

I do not know why

My heart will ache when you look at yourself and don't recognise who you once were and who you were so eager to be

But my heart will mend every time I see how happy you still manage to be

And how excited you are through all the accomplishments

My heart will mend when you look at me knowing who I am

My heart and yours will mend when the gap between memory and hope shrinks

And that we can find ourselves back to where we were

I will take now as a pause, a timeout

With hopes of hitting play soon"

The girl's mother had previously praised the girl's "incredible strength" after she was seriously wounded.

Last month we reported how hero creche worker Leanne Flynn Keogh, who put her life on the line to save kids during the incident, has recovered and left hospital.

Two other children injured during the incident were treated that evening but released from hospital.

Murder charges

A man is before the courts charged with the attempted murder of three kids and causing serious harm to a woman in the Parnell Square incident last November.

Riad Bouchaker, 50, of no fixed abode, was charged on December 21 and held in custody following a brief hearing.

A recent court hearing was told that gardai have taken more than 200 statements in the "complex" case.

Judge Alan Mitchell put the case back for four weeks and remanded the accused in continuing custody, and “because of the seriousness and complexity” of the case, he extended time for the book of evidence to be completed.

It needs to be served on a defendant before granting a trial order.

'No reply'

At the first hearing in December, Dublin District Court heard the accused made “no reply” when charged with “attempted murder of a female child”.

Mr Bouchaker’s reply to a second charge for the attempted murder of another girl was, “I am a sick person”.

The court heard he had no response when charged with attempted murder of a male child.

He had “no response” to charges of assault causing harm to another male child and a girl.

The court also heard he had no response when charged with causing serious harm to a care worker.

He had no reply when charged with assault, causing harm to a French national at the scene.

The final charge was for the production of a 36-centimetre kitchen knife, and in reply to that offence, he told gardai, “I am a sick person”.