ANDROS TOWNSEND thought his Premier League career was all but over when he began this season working for Sky Sports.

The former England winger, 32, was devastated when a mooted summer free transfer to Burnley fell through.

1 Andros Townsend thought his Premier league career was over and began working at Sky Sports Credit: X/SkySportsPL

Townsend had agreed terms with the Clarets after completing a trial at Turf Moor, only for Vincent Kompany's side to pull the plug.

The ex-Tottenham ace believed that his career at the top level was hanging by a thread, having also seen a Deadline Day move to Turkey fail to materialise.

Eventually he was given an opportunity by Luton, completing a switch to Kenilworth Road in October.

"The longer it went on I questioned whether I would play again," Townsend told the Hatters' matchday programme ahead of their clash with Manchester United.

"At the start of the summer I thought maybe my Premier League career would be over but I might be able to go overseas and build a career there, but as the months went on and rejections came thick and fast I started to realise maybe this is me now, maybe it's over."

Having left Crystal Palace in the summer of 2021, Townsend was snapped up by his former Newcastle boss Rafael Benitez at Everton.

During a largely productive first campaign that saw him score seven goals in 27 appearances, Townsend suffered a devastating ACL injury in March 2022.

During his 18-month lay-off Townsend explored the world of punditry, working for ITV during the World Cup in Qatar and even appearing on Sky Sports' Premier League coverage earlier this season.

Having now found joy again on the pitch with Luton, Townsend is relishing the challenge of keeping Rob Edwards' side in the Premier League.

"The dressing room is definitely up there in terms of the best I've been in with the team spirit and cohesion," he said.

Andros Townsend reveals how he persuaded fuming Cristiano Ronaldo to swap shirts after copying Man Utd star's celebration

"It is a special, special atmosphere and one of the main reasons why this club has come from the Conference to the Premier League in a short space of time.

"There is 100 per cent belief we can stay up.

"When I walked in the door we weren't getting the points we deserved and needed to but there was always belief that we were good enough but now we are showing the Premier League and the outside world and those who doubted us that we're good enough to be in this league."

Townsend went into Sunday's game having scored once and laid on two assists in 14 Prem outings this season.

Having earned a deal with Luton until the summer of 2026, Townsend will be hoping for many more chances to shine on the biggest stage, with Luton having given themselves a fighting chance of survival.