OUR much-loved astrologer Meg sadly died last year but her column will be kept alive by her friend and protégée Maggie Innes.

Read on to see what’s written in the stars for you today.

♈ ARIES

March 21 to April 20

The sun is strongest in your zone of self-discovery, so be ready to shine a light on your deepest dreams.

What you find can seem surprising but the genuine you is waiting to appear – and be recognised and rewarded.

In love terms, this can mean making waves, asking for what you need.

This time, no excuses.

Get all the latest Aries horoscope news including your weekly and monthly predictions

Your daily horoscope for Monday

♉ TAURUS

April 21 to May 21

The friends and family who always light up your life do deserve to know how much they mean to you.

This can be the day to begin.

Honesty between people who love each other can open up difficult discussions but leave everyone feeling more appreciated.

Save a little time today to check out some old numbers.

Get all the latest Taurus horoscope news including your weekly and monthly predictions

♊ GEMINI

May 22 to June 21

With your success sector ready to perform, you are the zodiac winner of the day and the week.

Start strong by claiming successes for yourself.

Do not let anyone else steal your thunder.

The moon’s family focus hints that big emotions may be showing something needs attention at home, so do tune into this.

Get all the latest Gemini horoscope news including your weekly and monthly predictions

♋ CANCER

June 22 to July 22

Jupiter’s special luck link for you puts familiar names into a celebrity setting, maybe even on to some famous lips.

And people you think you know well have so much more to show you.

Love is deeper than you realise but also has a layer of fun.

Big feelings are right there under a light-hearted attitude.

Get all the latest Cancer horoscope news including your weekly and monthly predictions

♌ LEO

July 23 to August 23

Saturn’s calm presence in your chart steadies the ship.

Your aim is true, whether you are focusing on a new set of feelings or reinforcing what is already there.

Any task that has spooked you before, you can perform with nerves of steel when you simply switch on self-belief.

Luck circles a set of kids’ birthdays.

Get all the latest Leo horoscope news including your weekly and monthly predictions

♍ VIRGO

August 24 to September 22

Someone you have always found a challenge to work or live with before is putty in your hands today as the sun switches signs.

Almost without thinking, you find exactly the right ways to get the best people on board.

Yes, you can lead, but also compromise.

Knowing when to end a task is your other star skill.

Get all the latest Virgo horoscope news including your weekly and monthly predictions

Knowing when to end a task is your other star skill Credit: Getty

♎ LIBRA

September 23 to October 23

Getting outside, whatever the weather, can clarify your thoughts and get a plan back on the “proceed” list.

A time of taking all opinions in can end when you use what you have now, instead of always asking for more.

Venus adds extra hints of romance to even the most routine set of comments or commands.

Get all the latest Libra horoscope news including your weekly and monthly predictions

♏ SCORPIO

October 24 to November 22

The sun shakes up everything innovative in your life today.

The only way to get things done is your individual way, even if this is not at all what anyone expects.

At work, if you have offered support, try not to stop doing so, even if the response is slow.

Pride can get in the way but only if you choose to let it rule.

Get all the latest Scorpio horoscope news including your weekly and monthly predictions

♐ SAGITTARIUS

November 23 to December 21

That chance to spend time in a warmer climate – maybe in terms of emotions – is finally here.

This is your day to bask in it. It is important to share everything in a family, so try not to hide difficult news or an important decision.

Love-wise, you know words need work but set a limit on how long you rethink them.

Get all the latest Sagittarius horoscope news including your weekly and monthly predictions

♑ CAPRICORN

December 22 to January 20

When you are ready to talk, you may be met with silence.

Use the new warmth in your chart to work out your best moment to speak.

This may be while you and someone special are carrying out a regular task together.

An old set of recipes can resurface with a strong luck link.

Passion waits at a “15” place or time.

Get all the latest Capricorn horoscope news including your weekly and monthly predictions

1 The moon gets creative while the sun boosts your self-confidence Credit: Supplied

♒ AQUARIUS

January 21 to February 18

You might not feel ready to redo a set of money calculations yet, but it is better to start now.

Gather the information you need and set your logical mind to “Go”.

The sun brings brilliant mental energy plus a whole new set of loyal supporters.

Saturn reminds you bonds need loyalty on both sides, not just one.

Get all the latest Aquarius horoscope news including your weekly and monthly predictions

♓ PISCES

February 19 to March 20

The moon gets creative while the sun boosts your self-confidence.

So if you have hesitated to show any private work to public eyes, this can be a great time to start.

Love secrets, too, can strengthen a bond as both partners work on them together.

Single? A Virgo dog-lover can be your most faithful match.

Get all the latest Pisces horoscope news including your weekly and monthly predictions