BEN Foden's wife Jackie has given birth to their second child as the couple shared her sweet name.

The little girl was born on January 9 by C-section after Jackie experienced health complications.

4 Ben Foden and his wife Jackie have announced the birth of their second child

4 Ben with his eldest children who live in Ireland with ex-wife Una Healy Credit: Social Media Collect

She said she was diagnosed with a condition linked to liver issues which results in itchiness and gave birth two weeks early to their daughter Olympia, who was born weighing 8lb 3oz.

Jackie, 39, revealed: "I ended up having a planned C-section with Olympia as during my pregnancy I was diagnosed with cholestasis and I was so uncomfortable and itchy towards the end.

"I tried to wait as long as possible but the doctors advised me that 9 January was as far as I could go.

"Looking back, I’m glad I didn’t wait any longer.

"She was 8lb 3oz; if we had let her go full-term they said she’d have been over 10lb!

The American socialite and Dancing On Ice star Ben, 38, welcomed their first daughter Farrah into the world after a whirlwind marriage in 2019.

Speaking in an interview with OK! Magazine, the ex-England rugby player revealed plans to introduce his newborn to his two children with his ex-wife Una Healy.

Una and their kids Aoife, 11, and nine-year-old Tadgh, live in Ireland.

He said: "They’ve not met in person yet, no. We’ve FaceTimed and called a couple of times though.

"They both came over to visit on 26 December and it was awesome to have them over just before Olympia was born.

Una Healy says kids are her 'everything' in sweet Instagram video

"It meant we could take them to one of Jackie’s scans so they could see the baby. It was really special.

"We also took them skiing at a centre near Jackie’s parent’s house in Connecticut and they were total naturals.

"It was nice to spend time just the five of us before Olympia came along."

Ben then referred to his newborn as "Pia" whilst he added: "I’m also going back to England for the England V Ireland rugby game, which will be around when Aoife’s birthday is.

"So, I’ll see them then again but in terms of them meeting Pia, it’ll be summer."

Ben spent his career playing at scrum-half and fullback, and he was previously married to Saturdays singer Una for six years.

MOVING ON

Ben was also in Dancing On Ice's fourteenth season in 2022.

But he was the first celeb to be eliminated from the ITV show after all judges voted to save Loose Women star Ria.

The star participated on X Factor: Celebrity in 2019, alongside tragic former rugby player Levi Davis and their pal Thom Evans, but the trio finished fifth.

But he now has a completely different career away from the camera.

He has moved into selling real estate including luxurious homes in New York, The Hamptons and Miami.

Ben, who lives in New York with Jackie, shared a post with a photo of himself and the team, as he raved about being featured in Forbes Magazine.

His move to real estate is a far cry from the rugby pitch, where Ben made his name.

Foden started his career at Sale Sharks before moving on to the Northampton Saints.

He spent a decade there, helping the Saints win the Premiership in 2014.

He also had a spell in New York with Rugby United, but shared the news that he was retiring from the sport.

4 His most recent TV stint saw him starring on Dancing On Ice Credit: Rex