RUSSIA has issued a chilling warning to the West threatening to unleash its "entire arsenal" of weapons on London if it loses the war in Ukraine.

The Kremlin even threatened to fire nuclear missiles at the UK, US, Germany and Ukraine if Vladimir Putin doesn't get his way.

5 Putin's crony left a threatening message to the West

5 Former Russian president, Dmitry Medvedev, says Russia would unleash 'the entire arsenal' on the West Credit: East2West

Dmitry Medvedev - a close Putin ally who served as president from 2008 to 2012 - said Moscow is prepared to unleash Armageddon on their foes if they were defeated in the bloody war.

Medvedev feared the West would only weaken Russia and return them to the 1991 borders if Putin was forced to give up parts of Ukraine he has invaded.

The Putin crony said: "Attempts to return Russia to the borders of 1991 will lead to only one thing.

“Towards a global war with Western countries using the entire strategic arsenal of our state.

“In Kyiv, Berlin, London, Washington.”

Medvedev continued his chilling threat: “Will we have the courage to do this if the disappearance of a thousand-year-old country, our great Motherland, is at stake, and the sacrifices made by the people of Russia over the centuries will be in vain?

“The answer is obvious."

Medvedev said if the West got their way, there would be a "direct and irreversible collapse of present-day Russia".

Before blaming the West for trying to stir a "violent civil war" within Russia.

He said on Telegram: "Tens of millions of victims. The death of our future. The collapse of everything in the world.

Rambling Putin boasts Russia has 'unstoppable' missiles & issues chilling warning to West in 2-hour Tucker Carlson rant

“Do these idiots really believe that the people of Russia will swallow such a division of their country?"

Before ending his tirade by asking Russia if they would rather live in a country fighting using nuclear weapons or a "collapsing dying country" until Russia "disappears".

Putin's weapons

The Russian tyrant has a collection of over 6,000 terrifying superweapons at his disposal.

The huge collection of nuclear warheads can be fired from land, sea and air.

With him even expected to send a nuke up to space.

These hypersonic nuclear missiles could strike "all other beautiful historical places that have long been included in the flight targets of our nuclear triad."

Putin also talked of extremely powerful weapons, including so-called 'unstoppable' missiles in his controversial interview with Tucker Carlson.

Saying: "We created hypersonic systems with intercontinental range, and we continue to develop them.

"We are now ahead of everyone, the United States and the other countries in terms of the development of hypersonic strike systems.

"And we are improving them every day."

Putin has previously said he has the hardware for every scenario imaginable and has assured the world his artillery is capable of mass destruction.

He previously bragged he will use nuclear weapons against the West if anyone interferes in Ukraine.

Even going as far as to make a thinly-veiled threat to nuke the West before declaring he's "not bluffing".

He ordered Russia's first mobilisation since World War Two, telling the West that if it continued what he called its "nuclear blackmail", Moscow would respond with the might of all its vast arsenal.

Medvedev has also suggested Ukrainian officials in Kyiv and the Western governments should leave Putin alone and allow him to take back parts of Ukraine he considers Russia's.

Otherwise, he said Russia would take the matter into their own hands and cause "maximum losses for the enemy".

He compared the situation to the recent Russian victory in Avdiivka, Ukraine as Putin's troops managed to fight off Zelensky's men and drove them out of the battered area.