Also tonight there's trouble in paradise for Mairead and Damien

REVENGE CITY RTE Fair City viewers all say same thing as Carol comes for James

RTE Fair City viewers are all delighted as Carol's coming for James.

Tonight, Hayley worried when she was unable to get in touch with James.

2 Carol persistently called Hayley Credit: RTE

2 James and Hayley slept together Credit: RTE

Anto decided he’s done trying to help Hayley, but Sharon pleaded with him to maintain contact.

Maxine relayed Rafferty’s delight at the raffle outcome to a tense James and Hayley.

Hayley was worried when James continued to ice her out.

Carol tried to locate Hayley. Hayley was shocked when James rejected her and asks her to move out.

James told Hayley he’s shocked by her calculating behaviour and asserted that he doesn’t recognise her anymore.

During a heated exchange, Hayley gave into passion and shared a kiss with James.

Lines were blurred when Hayley slept with James. James was hopeful for a new beginning, but a disgusted Hayley was not interested.

Hayley was mortified when Anto called over and realised she’d been intimate with James.

A smug James believed he and Hayley were back together, but Hayley insisted nothing had changed.

Anto warned Hayley she’d lost sight of what she wants and was heading down a dangerous path with James.

Hayley dodged Carol’s calls but Carol was persistent and said James is her's now.

RTE viewers were delighted to see Carol taking a stance against James.

Sinead wrote: "Carol v James is a fight I'm ready for."

One viewer tweeted: "RIP James, Carol is coming #Faircity."

Another said: "Carol will sort this."

LOVE CITY

Elsewhere, Damien informed Mairead that he’s going to Munich for a few days to see his daughter.

Mairead said something she regretted when she got into a heated exchange with Damien over their finances.

Orla tried to console Mairead, but was intrigued when she learned Damien’s sleeping in the spare room.

Orla gave Damien a shoulder to cry on and insisted he and Mairead will sort things out.

Gwen enjoyed getting under Orla’s skin about her friendship with Damien.

Meanwhile, Dearbhla considered her future with Gar. Dearbhla returned Gar’s engagement ring, but told him she wants to make things work.

GAR AND DEARBHLA

Dearbhla asserted that if Gar didn't trust her word over Fergal or anybody else’s, they would never work.

Gar told Fergal he wanted to try again with Dearbhla. Fergal got deeper inside Gar’s head, advising him to lay down the law with Dearbhla if he takes her back.

Dean was disturbed by Fergal’s vendetta against Dearbhla. Gar agreed to give things with Dearbhla another chance, but Dearbhla was taken aback by the conditions he put on her.

Dean warned Dearbhla that Fergal was behind everything.

Also tonight, Erica was unsettled by Pete’s furtive behaviour regarding his painkillers.

Erica was concerned when she discovered how many painkillers Pete had taken.

Pete claimed he made an honest mistake with the pills and persuaded Erica not to tell Doug.