How to get your money back - and what to do if you eat some

HEALTH RISK Aldi urgently recalls pasta dish from hundreds of stores over fears it could trigger life-threatening reactions

ALDI has recalled one of its ready meals over fears it could trigger life-threatening allergic reactions.

Batches of Carlos Takeaway Meat Feast Pasta Bake were found to contain mustard, which isn't listed on the packaging.

1 Aldi has recalled batches of Carlos Takeaway Meat Feast Pasta Bake Credit: Aldi

"This means the product is a possible health risk for anyone with an allergy to mustard," the Food Standards Agency (FSA) warned.

"If you have bought the above product and have an allergy to mustard, do not eat it.

"Instead return it to the store from where it was bought for a full refund."

The notice applies to 600g products with a 'best before' date of February 25, 26 and 27, 2024 (code 731020).

Signs are up in shops and allergy support organisations have been informed.

Affected customers can get their money back with or without a receipt.

An Aldi spokesperson said: "We apologise that this product did not meet our normal high standards and thank you for your cooperation."

Around two million people in the UK live with a food allergy.

It's not known how many are allergic to mustard, but it is one of the 14 major allergens.

This list also includes milk, eggs, celery and peanuts.

Dr Hilary Jones explains how to use EpiPens to deal with anaphylactic reactions

For allergy sufferers, eating problem foods can spark reactions, ranging from sneezing and dizziness to life-threatening anaphylaxis, which blocks the airways.

In serious cases, this can cause a dramatic drop in blood pressure, unconsciousness and even death.

According to the NHS, other common anaphylaxis symptoms include:

Swelling of your throat and tongue

Difficulty breathing or breathing very fast

Trouble swallowing, tightness in your throat or a hoarse voice

Wheezing, coughing or noisy breathing

Tiredness or confusion

Feeling faint, dizzy or fainting

Skin that feels cold to the touch

Blue, grey or pale skin, lips or tongue (if you have brown or black skin, this may be easier to see on the palms of your hands or soles of your feet)

Swelling of the lips, face and eyes

Diarrhoea

Nausea and/or vomiting

Stomach pain

Itchy skin or hives

Around 10 people die every year from serious food reactions, analysis of NHS data in 2021 showed.

And between 1998 and 2018, there was a three-fold increase in hospital admissions for food-induced anaphylaxis per year, from 1.23 to 4.04 admissions per 100,000 population.