It comes as another huge name was revealed to have signed a bumper six-figure deal to join the line-up

it's bb-back Celebrity Big Brother confirms launch date after show shake up sees first episode air live

CELEBRITY Big Brother has confirmed its launch date - and it's just days away.

The show's hosts AJ Odudu and Will Best made the announcement in a social media video this morning.

3 AJ Odudu and WIll Best confirmed the launch date for CBB

3 The pair pose with the legendary eye Credit: ITV

They confirmed that the show will be back very soon indeed.

AJ announced: "Guys, the wait is finally almost over because Celebrity Big Brother: The Launch hits our screen at 9pm on Monday 4th March."

Will then went on to confirm the shake-up previously reported earlier this month.

"And it's going to be absolutely live," he promised. "That is going to be the first time anyone sees those Housemates."

He added: "I cannot wait! It's so soon!"

AJ agreed: "I am so excited! I don't know what I'm wearing."

"Oh God, what am I wearing?" joked Will.

"I dunno!" AJ laughed.

"We better not wear the same thing, AJ" Will then bantered.

This time around the star-studded version will air on ITV's main ITV1 channel, rather than the sister ITV2 channel that airs civilian Big Brother.

Last series, the show came under fire for airing on a pre-recorded version of the launch show which was taped 24 hours earlier.

But the new shake-up means fans can enjoy the show in all its live, chaotic glory.

It comes as The Sun revealed last night that X Factor legend Louis Walsh has signed up to live in the nation's most famous house.

Louis, a judge on ITV’s The X Factor from 2004 till 2014 then 2016 to 2017, is said to have scored a bumper six-figure deal to enter those legendary doors.

A close pal of Irishman Louis, who managed Girls Aloud and Westlife, said: “He is one of the most intriguing signings for Celebrity Big Brother because he has almost half a century of experience in showbusiness to recall when he enters the house.

“Viewers will be most interested in his memories of his time on The X Factor and working with huge music acts including Westlife and Boyzone.

“But there may be a few celebrities outside the house who are feeling nervous about what he might say, because Louis is notoriously outspoken.”

Louis joins three other names that have already leaked: Kate Middleton’s uncle Gary Goldsmith, boxing champ Amir Khan's wife Faryal Makhdoom and Love Island winner Ekin-Su Cülcüloğlu.