BIKINI model Megan Skye Blancada is facing serious child sex abuse charges after allegedly having sex with a teen boy.

The Aussie mum, 34, who starred briefly in the hit horror film Wolf Creek, also allegedly had child exploitation pictures found on her phone by cops.

4 Bikini model Megan Skye Blancada, 34, will plead guilty to sex with a teen boy, according to her lawyer Credit: NCA NewsWire / David Mariuz

4 Ms Blancada often posts pictures of her bikini modelling jobs and glamorous lifestyle on social media Credit: Facebook

4 The actress poses in a Jadore dress for a red carpet event in Sydney in August 2023 Credit: Facebook,

Ms Blancada appeared at Adelaide Magistrate Court on Monday charged with the sexual abuse of a boy under the age of 16.

Police alleged the offending occurred between July 30, 2021 and November 6, 2023, in Adelaide’s outer north, court documents show.

Ms Blancada advertises herself as a fitness model and influencer on her social media profiles, often posting pictures of her bikini modelling jobs and glamorous lifestyle.

One post from August 30, 2023, shows her wearing a Jadore dress at a red carpet event in Sydney.

She also claims to have modelled for Mitsubishi and Bank SA.

Ms Blancada had a previous acting role in the 2008 comedy drama Hey, Hey, It's Esther Blueburger and is the author of a novel called Shadow Hunters: Shadows in the Wall.

The Adelaide-born model claims she “likes to keep her private life to herself while maintaining a low profile," according to her online profile.

Andrew Graham, appearing for Ms Blancada, told Magistrate Simon Smart that his client would make a guilty plea offer to the prosecution.

“My client will plead guilty to unlawful sexual intercourse and two indecent assaults,” he said.

After having her phone seized following her arrest in November, Ms Blancada was charged with knowingly possessing child exploitation material.

Murder in the Outback: The Falconio and Lees Mystery

Negotiations between the defence and prosecution are continuing and Mr Smart adjourned Ms Blancada’s case until May 1 for answer charges.

She declined to make any statement after leaving court.

Ms Blancada will return to court to answer the charges against her in May.