All recommendations within this article are informed by expert editorial opinion. If you click on a link in this story we may earn affiliate revenue.

A round in the ring Oura Ring review UK: where to buy the smart health tracker

HEALTH trackers have made massive leaps forward lately and wearable health trackers are now a part of daily life for fitness fans. The trouble is, they’re usually watches or worn around the wrist and can be bulky, which doesn’t suit everybody. The Oura Ring is a different matter altogether.

The Spy Kid style of wearing a big smartwatch has put us off wearing one in the past, so being able to see our health data while wearing a simple ring piqued our interest immediately.

The Oura Ring has research-grade sensors that track heart rate, heart rate variability (HRV), personalised temperature, activity, stress and sleep monitoring technology.

The smart ring gives the wearer three scores each day: Readiness, Sleep, and Activity. Using these scores, the user can switch up their day depending on if they need to take it easy or are equipped to up their activity.

Using the Oura Ring requires a monthly membership alongside the ring which costs £4.71 a month (or $5.99 USD)

Oura Ring Gen3 Horizon, from $349 (£274.22) in silver + monthly membership - buy here

Overall rating: 4/5

Pros

Very lightweight

Natural Cycles partnership

Easy sleep tracking

Precise step counter

Stylish

Cons

Chunky

Subscription model

Expensive

Oura Ring review UK: How we tested

Three Sun Shopping writers wore the Oura Ring Gen3 Horizon for a month straight in order to give it a comprehensive review.

We tested its ability to track sleep, stress and activity, as well as how well it worked in conjunction with the Natural Cycles app for contraception.

We also compared it to an Apple Watch to see which health tracker would come out on top.

Oura Ring 3 review: First impressions

Order and unboxing

The first part of ordering an Oura ring is to be sent a free sizing kit with plastic replicas of each ring size so you can try them on for style and size and ensure a snug fit.

These rings have three replica sensors which need to be lined up on the palm size of your hand to provide accurate data.

It slipped onto the recommended index finger but also fits comfortably on the middle finger, depending on your preference.

The key is making sure it's tight enough to stay in place but not so tight that it's uncomfortable.

8 The plastic ring that helped us determine our size

Oura Ring Gen3 Horizon, from $349 (£274.22) in silver + monthly membership - buy here

The Oura ring had a reasonably speedy delivery considering it came from The Netherlands. The order was placed on Friday, and it arrived within two business days.

Set up

The whole set-up process took 10 minutes maximum. To set up the Oura ring, simply download the Oura app and ensure your Bluetooth is on to allow the ring to pair.

The ring arrived with nearly a full charge, but we always have a slight paranoia about battery life so left it to charge until it was 100% while setting up the app.

8 The charging port

Oura Ring Gen3 Horizon, from $349 (£274.22) in silver + monthly membership - buy here

Sign-up was easy; it involved an email sign-in link for verification, and we were on our way. The app confirmed basics like height and weight and asked if we could share our Apple Health data.

It took about 10 seconds to pull in the data from the long walk we had to work earlier that day, adding estimated calories and information on how our day was pacing.

Design

At first glance, we thought the ring might look too chunky or too wide compared to other jewellery. However, we quickly became used to it, and despite being a thick model it's remarkably comfortable.

8 The stylish ring went well with our regular jewellery

We went for gold to match our watch and other rings. The ring comes in five different colours so that you can match it with your preferred metal.

8 Despite looking like a regular ring, you can see the trackers inside the band

Oura ring and sleep

Two of testers were already fiends for productivity, and both were using their Apple Watches to track their sleep, but found it uncomfortable to wear in bed.

Sleep tracking was why we were so excited about reviewing the Oura ring.

Call us a loser, but there is nothing quite like knowing that you've had more than an hour of deep sleep, five hours of light sleep and two hours of REM sleep in one night.

It may well be a placebo effect, but knowing that you've hit your body's quota of certain types of sleep is invigorating.

Just when you think you can't get through the day, you're quickly reminded that you have had a perfect night's sleep and a high readiness score and have no excuse not to finish that report that is due on Monday or head to the gym.

Oura Ring Gen3 Horizon, from $349 (£274.22) in silver + monthly membership - buy here

The length of your sleep and the amount of time you spent in various stages of sleep can be measured by the Oura ring, including periods of time spent awake, in REM sleep, deep sleep, and light sleep.

Oura gives you a tangible sleep score out of 100, which considers factors like total sleep, efficiency, restfulness, REM sleep, deep sleep, latency, and timing.

The app also lets you know when it's time to start winding down for the evening, and offers evening meditations to help you set the mood which we found very beneficial in helping us drift off.

Stress and Resilience

One of the newer functions of the ring is stress tracking.

Every fifteen minutes, the app will capture your biometric data (temperature and heart rate) and provide you with a stress reading.

The app starts tracking this metric two hours into your day once it's figured out your baseline temperature and heart rate for the day.

There are four different readings; Stressed, Engaged, Relaxed, Restored.

So far we haven't been too impressed with this function. It seems to indicate that we're mostly in a state of stress or 'engaged', even when we're relaxing or doing calming activities such as yoga.

We've noticed that it tends to spike during exercise, during hot showers, and after eating, and we feel our ratings don't correlate to our levels of stress at those moments.

8

Since this is currently a relatively new function we would expect to see it improve over time with updates.

Even more recently, Oura released a Stress Resilience metric which analyses how your body deals with and recovers from the stressors of the previous day.

At the point of writing, this function has only been live for a few days and therefore we feel it's a bit soon to comment on it. We'll provide our opinions once we've tested it more thoroughly.

8

Oura Ring and Natural Cycles

The Oura Ring is able to take your temperature, which means you can use it in conjunction with Natural Cycles as a method of hormone-free birth control.

Natural Cycles usually uses the temperature from an oral thermometer used first thing in the morning to track your daily fertility status. When used in combination with the Oura ring, the ring measures your temperature while you sleep and lets you know your fertility status in the morning.

Remembering to take your temperature manually every morning is a step we could definitely see ourselves forgetting, so having the ring do it for us automatically made the process seamless.

8 Natural Cycles app

Once the Natural Cycles app has synced with the data from the Oura Ring in the morning, it will ask you a few questions before telling you whether you need to use protection that day.

When you're sick or hungover the temperature reading can't accurately reflect your fertility status as your temperature has been affected, so those readings won't be taken into account.

You will have red days and green days, green days are when your temperature indicates you aren't ovulating and don't need to use protection.

Red days are when you need to use extra protection.

Natural Cycles takes into account what your fertility goals are, and if you're trying to get pregnant will tell you which days you are fertile.

Like all contraceptions, Natural Cycles is not 100% effective, and according to their research it is 93% effective with typical use and 98% effective with perfect use, so take that into account when you're weighing up your options.

You can read more about Natural Cycles' effectiveness here.

We've had negative experiences with hormonal birth control in the past (although it does work perfectly for many) so having the option of non-hormonal birth control was great for peace of mind.

You will need a Natural Cycles membership on top of your Oura membership, which is £9.99 a month or £69.99 for a yearly subscription.

You can sign up for Natural Cycles here.

Oura Ring vs Apple Health

Both the OURA app and the Apple Health app allow you to view information about your breathing patterns overnight as well as your heart rate during sleep.

For the Apple Watch, the addition of sleep stages is quite recent. It only became available with Watch OS 9.

The Oura technology is updating all the time and has even had an update since we started writing this review, which matches performance with the gold standard polysomnography sleep lab test and uses a behemoth data set to match against, making it come out on top for sleep tracking.

8 Apple Watch (left) vs Oura Ring (right) sleep tracking on different evenings

Oura Ring Gen3 Horizon, from $349 (£274.22) in silver + monthly membership - buy here

Going to sleep with a watch each night was never something we could get used to, so taking the watch off and using the Oura ring to track sleep was a dream.

We immediately felt more comfortable with the ring from the first slumber. As the resident sleep fidgeter, it was also great not to cause any damage with flailing arms while we slept.

When it comes to wearable tech, it makes sense to convert to an Apple Watch if you often wear a watch.

However, some people dislike wearing bulkier items like watches so you can easily miss out on crucial health data.

The Oura Ring, on the other hand, remains still on your finger and you become used to wearing it as you would an engagement or wedding band.

Despite the fact that there are just two design options (Horizon and Heritage), you can match Oura to your personality because the ring is available in a variety of colours and finishes. With Horizon there are six colourways: silver, black, stealth, gold, rose gold and brushed titanium, whereas with Heritage there are four: silver, black, stealth and gold.

The Oura Ring is a great option if you want a fitness tracker you can wear without thinking about it.

Also, when it comes to battery and charging, we had a clear winner.

We struggle to find time in the day to take off our Apple Watch to charge it, and the battery doesn’t last longer than 24 hours, which means by the time it comes to settling down to sleep, the watch needs charging and therefore, cannot be used to track sleep.

The Oura, on the other hand, lasts around six days on a single charge and gives you a handy notification which lets you know to charge your ring before you go to sleep to continue sleep tracking.

We are big fans of keeping it simple and love Oura’s uncomplicated approach to scoring. It gives you a sleep and readiness score, and with one look at the app in the morning, you’ll be able to see what your body needs for the day.

Where to buy an Oura ring in the UK

At the moment, you can only buy an Oura ring in the UK from the Oura website.

While the website displays the pricing in either USD or Euro, they offer worldwide delivery and we received ours within a few days of ordering.

How much does an Oura ring cost?

Oura Ring Gen3 Horizon starts at $349 (£274.22) for a silver finish or $499 (£392.08) for gold.

In addition, there is a monthly membership fee of $5.99 (£4.71) a month but the first month is free.

What are some Oura ring alternatives?

The main Oura ring competitor is the Apple Watch. The latest Apple Watch Series 8 tracks sleep, heart rate and exercise - along with body temperature and blood oxygen levels.

However, the Oura ring may be a more comfortable and fashionable choice for many who don't want to wear a watch all the time. Plus, it's on a par with the Apple Watch Series 8 (from £369 at Amazon).

Another smart ring alternative is the Circular ring, which also tracks sleep, fitness and heart rate, and costs from £226.92.

Other brands are set to release smart rings also, so keep an eye out for the latest tech in this space.

Other smartwatch alternatives include the Garmin Venu 2 Plus (from £399.99) smartwatch, and the Fitbit Sense 2 (£219.99).

What's the difference between the Oura Ring generation 2 and 3?

The Oura 3 tracks your heart rate in real-time and features more accurate sleep staging tech.

It also has more temperature sensors, allowing the accuracy needed to help women to predict ovulation dates and have a better understanding of their menstrual cycle.

The Oura Ring generation 3 also has an improved battery life.

What is the Oura Ring 4 release date?

We haven't got word on the release of the Oura Ring 4, so check back as we'll let you know as soon as it's announced.

But we have heard whispers that the latest Oura Ring could let you make contactless payments, which will change the game when it comes to your daily spending.

Can you use the Oura Ring without a subscription?

You can use Oura Rings without a membership, but expect some limits to what it can do, and it all depends on what model you have.

If you've got the Oura Ring Gen2 then you won't be charged a membership fee and it'll still get updates, but it won't get any future upgrades.

That's where the Gen3 comes in, but without a membership, you'll only see your three daily Oura scores, ring battery, and basic profile information, you won't be able to access the Oura API.

Can you shower with an Oura ring?

Yes, it is safe to shower wearing your õura ring, it will not be damaged by the water. In fact, Oura states it’s fine to wear your smart ring not only in the shower, but in saunas, hot tubs, ice baths and cryotherapy tanks.

Beware of extended exposure to extreme temperatures though, which could cause damage to the battery.