CONOR MCGREGOR has broken his silence following the confirmation he won't be in action at UFC 300 and receiving an unlikely callout.

UFC president and CEO Dana White brought to an end months of speculation surrounding the main event for the historic card this past weekend.

5 It was officially confirmed last weekend that Conro McGregor's clash with Michael Chandler won't headline UFC 300 Credit: GETTY

5 McGregor was on the receiving end of a shock call out from Ilia Topuria after the Georgian-born Spaniard claim the featherweight. title at UFC 298 Credit: GETTY

5 The Notorious issued a swift and blunt response to 'El Matador' on Instagram Credit: INSTAGRAM

The veteran promoter shot down the incredibly slim hopes of McGregor's long-awaited showdown with Michael Chandler headlining the Sin City extravaganza by announcing Alex Pereira's title defence against Jamahal Hill.

McGregor was very much in the minds of fans after he was called out by new featherweight champion Ilia Topuria following his UFC 298 demolition of Alexander Volkanovski.

In his post-fight interview, he told Joe Rogan: “Dana [White], Hunter [Campbell], it’s showtime!

"It’s time to take the UFC to Spain.

“And Conor McGregor, if you still have some balls, I will be waiting for you in Spain.”

It didn't take long for the Georgian-born Spaniard's callout to come to the attention of McGregor, who responded with a swift comment on Instagram.

He jokingly wrote on ESPN SportsCenter's Instagram post sharing Topuria’s quote: "I have huge balls, I’ve four kids.”

McGregor, 35, hasn't set foot inside the octagon since breaking his leg in his trilogy fight with Dustin Poirier nearly three years ago.

CASINO SPECIAL - BEST CASINO WELCOME OFFERS

5

The Irishman claimed late last year that his long-awaited return would close out International Fight Week on June 29.

UFC supremo White, however, recently shot down that claim by insisting the former two-division champ would return in the autumn at the earliest.

Watch Conor McGregor land brutal shot on sparring partner leaving Ebanie Bridges in awe

But the 54-year-old recently insisted he doesn't know when The Notorious will be "ready" to return.

He told Kevin Iole: “Only Conor knows [when he’s ready].

"These are questions for Conor McGregor, not me. I know he’s training.

"I don’t know what level of training he’s doing.

5 Conor McGregor hasn't fought since breaking his leg nearly three years ago Credit: AP

"I don’t know what level of kicking he’s doing right now. I don’t know any of that stuff.

"I need to know the guy’s in a full camp and he’s ready to go. Conor McGregor has a movie coming out.

"He’s got businesses that he’s built. It’s a completely different dynamic when you’re dealing with a guy that has this kind of money.”

McGregor, however, is seemingly back in full training and is clearly itching to get back inside the octagon.

He vented on his Instagram story earlier this month: "Get this f***ing date set."