JAMIE Laing has been trying to make light of the backlash against him after being announced as the new host for BBC Radio One.

Following the shock news that favourite Jordan North had left his position at the station after 10 years, fans were left divided over Jamie being confirmed as his replacement.

4 Jamie Laing is dealing with the backlash the best way he knows how Credit: Splash

4 Jordan North is moving to rival station Capital Breakfast Credit: Instagram

He will be joining Vick Hope on the DriveTime slot for the foreseeable.

The Made In Chelsea star and contestant has been hit with backlash over claims the BBC favoured a ‘famous face’ with no history in the profession to an upcoming broadcast journalist.

Since then, Jamie - who has made no major statement beyond the initial announcement - has instead taken to defending himself by mocking the haters.

In his latest swipe back, the former Strictly contestant shared a comment on Instagram from someone named “Maggie Pie”.

The commenter wrote: “A face for radio…You wouldn’t tire of punching him… I know I would have bullied him at school.”

Alongside a laughing emoji, Jamie simply responded: “‘Maggie Pie’ wading in hard!”

Jamie has been eased into the Radio One fold over the past few months, having stood in on a number of shows previously.

Jordan has jumped ship to rival station Capital Radio, replacing Roman Kemp as their new Breakfast show host.

Addressing his exit on Instagram, Jordan said: "I just wanted to take this opportunity to thank all my wonderful colleagues / talented producers at Radio 1 who many I consider to be friends for life and will miss greatly, you’ve all reached out to me over the past 24 hours and it really has meant a lot.

"To my amazing fellow presenters I wish I could thank you all personally, I’ve loved working with you it’s been an absolute blast! Big love to Katie Thisleton, Greg James, Arielle Free, Ricky, Melvin & Charlie, Dean & Vicky, Clara Amfo, Matt & Molly, Scott Mills, Grimmy, all the rest of you fantastic lot, and of course my partner in crime Vick Hope…I’ll miss being on air with you every day.

"MOST IMPORTANTLY the biggest of thank yous to the fantastic listeners who have been really generous and always made me feel welcome, your kind words & messages have been so lovely, THANK YOU SO MUCH."

4 Jamie has taken on a career in podcasting before his move to the Beeb Credit: tiktok/@privatepodcast