Matthew's family have paid tribute to the 'gentle, loving, and caring' man

FAMILY TORN APART Tragedy as ‘loving and caring’ dad Matthew Collins is suddenly swept out to sea just days after the birth of his baby

A DAD was tragically swept out to sea by a riptide just days after the birth of his sixth child.

Matthew Collins, 39, entered the water with a friend in Broadstairs, Kent after a work out at a PureGym in October.

2 Matthew Collins died in freezing cold water last October Credit: Facebook

2 His sixth child was born just three weeks before his death Credit: Facebook

But the two soon encountered strong currents and pulled Matthew into intensely cold water, an inquest heard.

The "gentle and caring" dad was airlifted to hospital but was pronounced dead on arrival at Ashford’s William Harvey Hospital.

His tragic death comes just three weeks after his sixth child was born.

"They went out into the water and Matthew had difficulty and got swept by the tide,” Coroner Katrina Hepburn told the hearing at Oakwood House in Maidstone.

“By the time the coastguard had arrived, Matthew had become unresponsive in the water.

“He was taken out of the water by the coastguard and taken to hospital by air ambulance.”

Ms Hepburn concluded Mr Collins became exhausted battling against the waves, and that exposure to cold water and an underlying case of thalassaemia - a genetic blood disease - caused a fatal cardiac arrhythmia.

Mr Collins’ mother, Melanie Collins-Brett, previously told KentOnline that her son’s death has devastated their family.

“He was the best son ever and I’m going to miss him terribly,” she said.

“He was my friend and such a gentle, loving and caring son.

Woman arrested for 'murder' after three kids found dead at home

“It’s hard to imagine I’m not going to see him again, and my heart will bleed until I do. I love and miss him.”

Matthew's partner Lucy Smith – the mother of his youngest son Ronnie – described him as “the most loving, kind man”.

“You are and will always be the love of my life,” she wrote in a touching tribute.

“You were the best dad to our son even though I know it wasn’t for long.

“I know given the chance you would’ve been a great dad to our Ronnie and I will remind him of you every day, as will all his brothers and sisters.

“He’s going to be so loved and protected. My heart’s broken. I love you Matt.”

A fundraising page was launched last year to give Matthew the “send-off he deserved” and has raised more than £5,000.