KING Charles waves to well-wishers at Sandringham today as he's seen for the first time since Harry's bombshell TV interview.

His Majesty and Queen Camilla walked through the wind and rain to a service at St Mary Magdalene Church on the royal estate in Norfolk.

11 King Charles and Queen Camilla greet well-wishers at Sandringham Credit: Geoff Robinson Photography

11 The King seemed in good spirits as he attended Sunday church Credit: Geoff Robinson Photography

11 The King is staying at the 20,000 acre estate as he undergoes treatment for cancer Credit: Geoff Robinson Photography

11 Harry - pictured here at a Winter Invictus Games event in Canada this week - planned for a long heart-to-heart with his dad but got 45 minutes Credit: Getty

The pair appeared in good spirits under umbrellas as they were accompanied to church by Rev Canon Dr Paul Williams.

Police made sure kids were brought to the front of the crowd so they could get front-row seats of the King.

Debbie Figg, 59, said: "We are staying for the weekend and thought it was important to show support."

She came with Robin Figg, 68, and granddkids Harvey Emmanuel, ten, and Taylor Emmanuel, nine.

Taylor's message to the King was: "I hope you feel better."

Oscar Young, eight, said seeing the King was "very exciting".

While Ken Stone, 71, said: "There's so much else going on with family relationships that it's good to support him through this and when he's obviously going through a tough time himself physically."

Charles, 75, is staying at the 20,000 acre Sandringham as he undergoes treatment for cancer.

It comes as The Sun on Sunday revealed Prince Harry was "blocked" from joining the King at the Norfolk palace during his visit to the UK.

Palace aides feared “they’d never get rid of him” after Harry jetted over 5,000 miles from California to be with his cancer-stricken dad.

The 39-year-old planned for a long heart-to-heart with the King but got 45 minutes.

Just six minutes after Harry left the meeting, the King and Queen made their way by Bentley to a helicopter in the Buckingham Palace gardens before flying to Sandringham.

Alexei Navalny 'was in solitary' when he died & Prince Harry opens up on King - 60-Second Briefing

Harry - having hoped to join the King for a few days at Sandringham - was instead forced into a hotel for the night.

He flew back to wife Meghan, 42, and their two kids in California after spending just 26 hours in the UK.

An insider revealed: “Harry came over to see his father, expecting to go to Sandringham.

"But instead he was asked to be at Clarence House and was restricted to 30 minutes.

“The fear was that if he went to Sandringham they would never get rid of him.”

Last week, Harry told Good Morning America “I love my family” and then described how “illness can have a reunifying effect”.

Speaking at the Winter Invictus Games' One Year to Go event in Whistler, Canada, the Duke added: "Throughout all these families, I see it all on a day to day basis.

"The strength of the family unit coming together."

The fear was that if he went to Sandringham they would never get rid of him Royal insider discussing Prince Harry

Harry also discussed family life and revealed the "incredible" sense of humour kids Archie, four, and Lilibet, two, have.

He added: "The kids are doing great. The kids are growing up like all kids do very very fast.

"They both got an incredible sense of humour and make us laugh and keep us grounded every single day like most kids do. I am just very grateful to be a dad."

He even revealed he had considered applying for American citizenship but stressed it was "not a high priority".

On Friday, singer Michael Bublé serenaded Prince Harry and Meghan Markle - with the singer hailing the Duke a "visionary".

The Canadian crooner, 48, re-worded Frank Sinatra's epic "My Way" in a nod to Harry at a gala dinner to close the Invictus Games' "One Year To Go" event.

Bublé also expressed "healing wishes for your dad" in tribute to cancer-stricken King Charles.

Prince Harry, wearing a dark suit and a black tie, later gave a speech where he paid tribute to Invictus Games competitors.

He added: "The Invictus Games are not just a competition; they’re a way of life, a celebration of the human spirit.

"It is a reminder that we are not defined by our injuries, but by our strength, our commitment, and our ability to overcome adversity."

11 King Charles was accompanied by Queen Camilla to church at Sandringham on Sunday Credit: Paul Edwards

11 The pair battled the elements as they walked to a service at St Mary Magdalene on the royal estate in Norfolk. Credit: Reuters

11 The Sun on Sunday revealed Prince Harry was 'blocked' from joining the King at Sandringham during his visit to the UK Credit: Paul Edwards

11 Harry had hoped to join the King for a few days at Sandringham but was instead forced into a hotel for the night Credit: Reuters

11 Last week, Harry told Good Morning America 'I love my family' and then described how 'illness can have a reunifying effect' Credit: The Mega Agency

11 On Friday, singer Michael Bublé serenaded Prince Harry and Meghan Markle - with the singer hailing the Duke a 'visionary' Credit: AP