KATIE Price flaunted her figure in a skin-tight pink onesie after jetting to Bulgaria for a ski holiday.

The TV star isn't enjoying the mountain views alone, she's been joined by her new boyfriend JJ Slater.

5 Katie Price looked incredible in her pink all-in-one

Posing for the camera, she stood on the piste in the jazzy pink, purple and orange one-piece.

The outfit nipped her in at the waist with a little white belt and she accessorised with a pair of black sunglasses.

"Absolutely loved skiing spending time with close ones," she wrote.

Fans rushed to the comment section to share their thoughts on Katie's slopestyle.

"C'Mon Barbie, Let's go .... Skiing," one wrote.

"Love that on you," wrote a second, while a third said: "All that glow and snow!!"

Despite not sharing photos together, it's believed that she has been joined by Married at First Sight star JJ.

In one of Katie's stories, she is being filmed by JJ as she slid down the hill sat on her skis.

JJ, who has diabetes, also shared a photo of him taking a break from skiing to inject himself with insulin.

"Diabetes realness," he captioned the story.

He also took a break from skiing to enjoy a spot of quad biking.

The MAFS star gave followers a little sneak peek into where the pair are staying - a rustic lodge with a roaring fire.

There have been other clues that the new couple are holidaying together.

Essex boy JJ took to Instagram to reveal he's on a skiing holiday, and in one of the snaps he shared someone could be seen wearing a very similar ski suit to the one Katie sported in December 2022.

JJ also gave away the ski resort he's staying in, sharing a snap of Bansko in Bulgaria.

He also shared a snap of someone wearing the same coat that Katie was previously seen modelling.

Katie went public with Married At First Sight UK's JJ last weekend.

Last week The Sun told how things were getting serious between JJ and Katie, with the mum-of-five having met his friends already.

An insider said: "Katie has spent time in JJ's hometown in Essex and has already met his friends.

"She's got a reputation for falling hard and fast and so far it looks like things will be no different with JJ."

This comes as Katie was warned against JJ by one of his MAFS stars.

Georges Berthhonneau has insisted that Katie is heading for heartbreak with her new man.

Speaking to Closer, Georges said: "JJ is the biggest ladies' man.

"He's made a ton of money, so he only hangs out with models now. Katie will be obsessed with him - she's known to love Essex guys and he's all about that vibe.

"She'll end up heartbroken because he definitely won't be in it for the long run."

Georges also appeared to suggest JJ is more interested in fame, adding: "He wants to keep his name out there."

5 JJ Slater took a break from skiing to inject himself with insulin

5 Katie slid down the slope on her skis

5 Katie Price is enjoying a romantic tryst in the mountains with JJ Slater