A COUNCIL tenant has revealed that people always think her home is going to be "scruffy" and are shocked by how "beautiful" it looks inside.

Cole Whitehead shared an insight into her council home via a video posted to her TikTok channel @colewhitehead985.

2 Cole renovated her house herself Credit: TikTok / @colewhitehead985

2 People said she has made the house look "beautiful" Credit: TikTok / @colewhitehead985

"Not all council houses are scruffy", Cole said, before stated that she had done all of the DIY on the property herself.

The DIY whizz then gave viewers an insight into the interior of her home.

In the hallway, the floor is covered with modern looking wood panelling, and the walls are adorned with stylish prints and a large circular mirror.

In the living room, a large corner sofa sits at the back of the room and an enormous TV hangs from the wall.

Behind the TV, the walls are decorated with fashionable wood panels and a giant three legged lamp rests in the corner of the room .

Dotted around the house are adorable potted plants and lots of photo frames, giving the place a very cosy and homely feel.

Cole's video has clearly left many impressed, as it has racked up over 62,000 views on the video-sharing platform.

TikTok users raced to the video's comment's section to share their thoughts on Cole's home.

One user said: "Your home is so beautiful".

Another user said: "Looks lovely".

A third person remarked: "I love this".

I thought I’d bought a bog standard house but then found a secret that not even the previous tenants knew about

Council tenants are allowed to make alterations and renovations to their homes.

However, they must make sure that any work conforms to building regulations and planning permission.

Council houses are provided by local authorities to those in need.

Not all council houses are scruffy Cole Whitehead

They are often cheaper than renting private housing and can also offer greater security from eviction.

Council houses are allocated to prospective tenants via a points based system, with those in greater need given homes first.

The council will contact you about an available property when you are high enough up the waiting list.

More than one million people are currently waiting for social housing in the UK.

Fabulous will pay for your exclusive stories. Just email: fabulousdigital@the-sun.co.uk and pop EXCLUSIVE in the subject line.