Find out where you could spot the dog

SPOT THE DOG Could a Robot DOG bring an end to traffic jams? Watch as hi-tech four-legged friend gets to work on UK motorway

A ROBOT dog could bring an end to traffic jams - as the hi-tech four-legged friend starts getting to work on a UK motorway.

National Highways has started using the technology named Spot across locations in the south west to try and tackle congestion.

2 Spot the robot will hopefully stop a lot of traffic jams Credit: SWNS

2 He has already got to work on the M5 Credit: SWNS

The white robotic machine aims to take over the role from workers conducting surveys on our roads.

It means all types of motorists - including commuters - won't get held up by inspectors.

Spot aims to capture information in difficult locations, that employees can't, to make journeys smoother as well.

The robotic dog will roam steep banks, culverts, under bridges and other structures.

National Highways said it is a "cost-effective" alternative to putting human inspectors in certain areas.

It will also "reduce the need for costly and disruptive traffic management".

Guy Swains, Engineering Manager, said: “The initial, ‘proof of concept’ testing has been encouraging and we’re now live trialling the robotic tool with a view to utilising it via our contractors in future survey work, particularly in locations which present challenges for our traditional methods.

“As part of an ongoing exploration, Spot’s capabilities will be tested over a variety of terrains and environments and in differing weather and ground conditions.

“The data from the trials will also be captured and analysed and dependent on results, hopefully we’ll be able to measure an improvement in safety methods and efficiencies and employ the technology in our future work.”

Matt Ewing, Business Development Manager, added: “Technology can keep our people safe and repeatedly capture high quality data, and having Spot undertake these trials demonstrates capability and evidence for further trials while making efficiencies in the delivery of work today.

“It’s about finding the right applications, and the team is focused on realising Spot’s potential.”