The chilling vow came after the promotion's second pay-per-view event of the year

CALL FOR 'CHAOS' UFC star issues chilling threat to opponent and promises to hit him ‘so hard that he’s never able to speak again’

IAN MACHADO GARRY sent a chilling message to Colby Covington after picking up his first win of the year.

The Irishman extended his record to a perfect 14-0 early on Sunday morning on the main card of UFC 298, where he locked horns with veteran welterweight Geoff Neal.

5 Ian Garry returned to action against Geoff Neal at UFC 298 Credit: REUTERS

5 The Irishman had his hand raised courtesy of a split-decision victory Credit: GETTY

5 'The Future' has set his sights on silencing the controversial Colby Covington next Credit: Getty

Garry used great striking - in particular knees from range - and footwork to earn a split decision win in what was the biggest test of his career.

He made an immediate beeline for former interim welterweight king Covington - who has made a series of crass comments about his wife Layla - after having his hand raised.

Garry has already mentally prepared himself for the potential trash talk which would come with the fight, which he sees as an opportunity to silence the American once and for all.

He said: “Let him write his script. Let him do the panto. Let him do the act, let him do everything.

"I’m gonna get to punch him in the face. He can talk about me, my wife, my family, my kids, he can talk about whatever he wants.

"He gets the pass because he’s gonna sign the contract. As long as he shows up and is a man, I will punch the mouth off him.

"And I hope I hit him so hard that he’s never able to speak again.”

Garry, 26, insists he won't let the three-time welterweight title challenger see the final horn should they share the octagon.

CASINO SPECIAL - BEST CASINO WELCOME OFFERS

5

He said: "I’m gonna go out there, and I’m gonna beat Colby Covington like we’ve never seen before.

"The truth is Colby’s biggest claim to fame is he’s fought for three world titles, and he’s lost all three.

"He’s not as good as people think he is. If you get beaten by a young talented up-and-coming prospect, one of the best we’ve ever seen, you don’t come back from that.

"I’ll match him pace for pace in cardio, I’ll match him on output. He doesn’t possess anywhere near to power Geoff Neal does.

"He has great wrestling cool, put me on my back, see what happens if you put me on my back. I’ll choke him unconscious.

"I promise you, I will end that flight.

"I’ll finish that flight, and I’ll rid the UFC of Colby Covington once and for all - like he needs to be done.

"I’m sick of his nonsense, he’s a piece of s**t.”