Gardai also responded to another crash in the same county at around the same time

SMASH SCENE Six people rushed to hospital after two-car crash in Clare as firefighters cut injured free from wreckage

SIX people were rushed to hospital after a horror crash yesterday evening.

Gardai confirmed that one person has been arrested following the two-car smash, which took place at around 6.30pm on Sunday on the N67 Spanish Point road out of Miltown Malbay in Co Clare, about 500m from the town’s square and outside the local GAA field.

2 Six people were taken to hospital following a road traffic collision on the N67 Spanish Point road out of Miltown Malbay in Co Clare on Sunday evening Credit: Press 22

2 A man and woman, both in their teens, as well as another woman and three other men were injured in the collision Credit: Press 22

A man and woman, both in their teens, as well as another woman and three other men were injured in the collision.

All six are currently receiving treatment for serious injuries at University Hospital Limerick.

Their injuries are not believed to be life-threatening, however.

Units of Clare County Fire and Rescue Service from Ennistymon station responded to the scene along with National Ambulance Service paramedics and gardai.

Firefighters had to use specialist cutting equipment to help free the injured from the wreckage.

The road where the incident occurred remains closed at this time.

Local diversions are currently in place.

Gardai have arrested a man in connection with this collision and a spokesperson added: "Investigations are ongoing."

Anyone with information or video footage in relation to this collision can contact Ennistymon Garda Station on 065 707 2180, the Garda Confidential Line on 1800 666 111, or any Garda Station.

Meanwhile, on the outskirts of Ennis, a collision involving a car and a motorcycle occurred shortly after 7pm on Sunday.

SEPARATE CRASH

The incident happened on the main N68 Ennis to Kilrush at Kilmorane at the turn off for Ballyea.

Units of Clare County Fire and Rescue Service from Ennis station responded to that incident along with gardai and a number of ambulances from Clare and Limerick.

The motorcyclist was taken to hospital with what’s understood to be a lower limb fracture, while his pillion passenger was assessed at the scene before being transported to hospital for further treatment.

It’s understood that occupants of the car were uninjured.

The scene was examined by Garda Crime Scene Investigation officers before the road was reopened to traffic.

Gardai are investigating the circumstances of both collisions.

GIRL NAMED

It comes as a six-year-old girl who died in hospital on Saturday, nine days after she was involved in a horror crash, was named.

Hannah Meshkat was a passenger in a car that was involved in a single-vehicle crash on the M6 in Co Westmeath shortly before 4pm on Thursday, February 8.

The child, from Galway, was rushed to Temple Street Children's Hospital in Dublin after suffering serious injuries, but passed away there on Saturday, February 17.

A man in his 40s and a boy aged nine escaped serious injury in the collision, which happened between Junction 4 at Tyrellspass and Junction 3 at Rochfortbridge.

Gardai in Mullingar yesterday renewed their appeal for witnesses.

Those with camera footage (including dash-cam) from the M6 between Junction 3 and Junction 4 at the time of the collision are urged to provide this footage to investigating officers.

Anyone with information is requested to contact Mullingar Garda Station on 044 938 4000, the Garda Confidential Line on 1800 666 111, or any Garda Station.