GARY NEVILLE apologised live on air to Harry Styles after failing to recognise the pop star on Sunday.

The duo were both present as Manchester United narrowly beat Luton 2-1 at Kenilworth Road.

3 Gary Neville apologised to Harry Styles live on air after an 'embarrassing' blunder Credit: X formerly Twitter / @SkySportsPL

3 Styles was present as Man Utd narrowly beat Luton 2-1 at Kenilworth Road Credit: AFP

Before kick-off, One Direction star Styles popped into the Sky Sports studio to greet pundits like Jamie Redknapp and Tom Lockyer.

But Neville failed to recognise Styles, who was dressed smartly with a snazzy new haircut.

The Red Devil icon was left red-faced at full-time after discovering who he had shared the room with.

And Neville issued a grovelling apology live on air, admitting his two daughters had been left “mortified.”

United favourite Neville said: “I’ve got to get into the studio and try and resurrect the fact I didn’t recognise Harry Styles before the game because I’ve never seen him dress so smartly.

“He walked in with the Luton owners and I thought he was actually one of the director’s sons.

“[Did he recognise me?] No! Not that I’d want him to recognise me, he’s a United fan so he may have done.

“I’m totally embarrassed, I’m shocked. My two girls will be horrified, mortified with me. I’m really sorry Harry, I really am.”

HOW TO GET FREE BETS ON FOOTBALL

However, Styles got plenty of air time on Sky Sports after being welcomed into the studio by host David Jones.

He said: "This is the hottest ticket in town in Luton today. Look who's here, Harry Styles, pop superstar.

Fans baffled as Harry Styles spotted in Sky Sports studio before Luton vs Man Utd clash

3 Styles met the Sky Sports studio... but Neville did not recognise him Credit: X formerly Twitter / @SkySportsPL

"I've never seen Jamie Redknapp move so fast out of his chair to get his selfie. How's your hamstring?"

Redknapp replied: "Oh really. Watch you here now... look how thirsty you get when he walks past you.

"'Oh can I have some tickets please!' 'Yeah do one mate!'"

MAN UTD NEWS LIVE: All the latest news from Old Trafford