RTE star Jennifer Zamparelli showed off a "dangerous move" wearing "no underwear".

Dynamic duo Jennifer and Doireann Garrihy were back in action last night for the another episode of Dancing With The Stars.

3 Jennifer Zamparelli showed off her go-to move Credit: Instagram

3 Jen said she had 'no underwear' on Credit: Instagram

3 Jennifer Zamparelli and Doireann Garrihy co-host Dancing With The Stars together Credit: Kyran O Brien

Things heated up majorly on the hit RTE show last night with the first dance off of the season.

The glamorous pair were getting ready backstage before the show, when reporter James Patrice approached them and asked them what move they would do in a dance-off.

Jen, wearing a pink fluffy night gown, said: "I would do the slut drop."

The 43-year-old then dropped down onto her hunkers before body rolling her way back up to standing position.

The mum-of-two confessed: "I've no underwear on under this, that's dangerous."

Doireann's dance move was a bit more PG as she said: "I'm able to do the swivel-y Charleston thing with my feet."

However, while the radio star shuffled her feet, she shouted: "My t*ts are going!"

RTE shared the hilarious clip on Instagram and had everyone in the comment section in stitches.

Kate wrote: "Jaysus!"

Emma said: "Brilliant."

Fans all call Jennifer Zamparelli a ‘ride’ as she lights up Dancing With The Stars studio in ‘beautiful’ outfit

Last week Jennifer enjoyed a reunion with 2023 dancer Panti Bliss aka Rory O'Neill.

The pair both showed up to the opening of Sister Act in the Bord Gáis Energy Theatre, with Jen joined by her adorable little girl Florence for a mum and daughter night out.

The DWTS stars were joined by other big names including Keys of Our Lives host Brendan Courtney and Virgin Media presenter Martin King and wife Jenny McCarthy to see Gavin and Stacey star Ruth Jones playing Mother Superior in the hit comedy.

Audiences were wowed by a first rate cast who belted out the tunes in a spectacular staging with fabulous costumes led by star Ruth, as a Welsh nun running a US convent.

Based on the beloved 1992 film of the same name, the musical tells the hilarious story of a disco diva whose life takes a surprising turn when she witnesses a murder.

Under protective custody, she is hidden in the one place she won’t be found – a convent.

Disguised as a nun and under the suspicious watch of Mother Superior, Deloris helps her fellow sisters find their voices as she unexpectedly rediscovers her own.

Irish audiences are being given the first chance to see Ruth take on the role of Mother Superior in Dublin before she makes her West End stage debut in Sister Act at the Dominion Theatre London, in March 2024.