KERRY Katona's fiancé Ryan Mahoney grabbed her tattooed bum as they snogged on holiday this week.

Mum-of-five Kerry, 43, recently jetted off on a romantic Spanish getaway with the fitness coach, after her 3st weight loss.

7 Kerry Katona's fiancé grabbed her tattooed bum as they snogged on holiday Credit: BackGrid

7 Kerry has been enjoying a Spanish getaway with fitness coach Ryan Mahoney Credit: BackGrid

They were pictured on Valentine's Day packing on the PDA on a sunbed, with the former singer wearing a white bikini with OnlyFans branding - on which she is a content creator.

She looked incredible in the tiny two-piece, while going make-up free and tying her blonde tresses back into a ponytail.

Ryan, who sported a pair of tropical swimming shorts, couldn't keep his hands off the TV personality.

Kerry has been refreshingly open about her workouts and how she feels within herself and has been praised by fans as a result.

However, it seems that she is in a great place mentally, as well as physically and she is full of excitement for the new year.

Speaking to OK! Magazine, she recently said: "I’m going into 2024 feeling a hell of a lot lighter and that’s not just because I’ve lost three and a half stone! Life’s really good and it’s only going to get better."

In May this year, the former Big Brother housemate said that the pounds were "falling off" after showing off her abs.

Kerry pulled her top up to reveal her shrinking waistline, saying: "You can actually see how much weight has fell off me. I've got a big bum, but you can see the back as well.

"Yeah, it's good people. Very, very good."

Her initial goal was to lose three stone, which she has done, but now she wants to drop a few more stone.

Despite her weight loss, she said she saw a bikini picture of herself and still wasn't happy with her new frame.

Kerry has also bagged her first movie role and will appear in a rom-com after going from bankrupt to a multi-millionaire.

The ex Atomic Kitten star, who previously said that she has accumulated more than one million pounds in earnings from her OnlyFans content, is already "training butt off" in preparation for the role.

On her announcing her signing only last week with acting agent, Donia Youssef of Wonder Talent Management, Kerry, 43, has landed herself a featured role playing Nina Bennet in Finding Forever.

She will play the co-owner of a beauty salon in production with BUFF STUDIOS , filming starts this spring.

Keep up to date with the latest news, gossip and scandals on our celebrity live blog

7 She flaunted her 3st weight loss in an OnlyFans bikini Credit: BackGrid

7 Ryan couldn't keep his hands off Kerry's rear Credit: BackGrid

7 He got rather handsy with the sun cream Credit: BackGrid

7 It appears Kerry didn't mind the physical attention Credit: BackGrid