FIVE players and a coach have been hospitalised after fan trouble saw a firework thrown towards the dugout.

The incident occurred as Mura welcomed Maribor in the Slovenian PrvaLiga.

2 Fireworks were thrown towards the Mura dugout Credit: @SportTVSlovenia

2 Players left the field and the game was abandoned Credit: @SportTVSlovenia

Veliki pok je v Murski Soboti prekinil derbi kroga. Nadaljevanje tekme med @nsmura_ms in @nkmaribor je pod velikim vprašajem. pic.twitter.com/BmhTOF0iG7 — Šport TV Slovenija (@SportTVSlovenia) February 18, 2024

After 57 minutes, a loud bang was heard with play halted immediately.

The noise came as a Maribor fan reportedly lobbed a fireworks towards the pitch and it landed just close to the Mura bench.

A huge cloud of smoke covered the field with five players and a fitness coach injured.

It has been reported that one star has suffered "lasting hearing damage" and Mura ace Niko Kasalo was left in tears.

Other individuals sustained "severe headaches and burns on their legs", with a ballboy also nearly hurt.

A Mura statement read: "It is necessary to ask whether we will have to fear for the health of both football players and fans because of certain individuals from now on.

"The question is how we can convince fans, especially those who come with children, that football is a beautiful thing.

"We believe that the league will take appropriate and severe action in this case and show zero tolerance for such behaviour.

"All of us at the club are deeply moved by the event, which will unfortunately mark the Slovenian football scene for a long time to come."

The players were taken to the dressing rooms by the referee for 25 minutes.

West Brom vs Wolves SUSPENDED as furious fights break out with fans on pitch in Black Country derby

Both teams then agreed to play on should the Maribor fans leave the stadium.

However, the supporters refused to go home and supposedly threatened to cause more trouble should they be forced out.

Officials therefore decided to abandon the game with Maribor 2-0 up at the time.

The Slovenian FA will investigate the issue with the club set to heavily punished.

Maribor have won the league 16 times and competed in the Champions League group stages as recently as 2017.

Meanwhile, Mura are best known for beating Tottenham 2-1 in the Conference League two seasons ago.