PRINCE William made a light-hearted quip about Kate's health as he arrived at the Baftas without his wife at his side.

The heir, 41, headed along to the massive event alone as his wife rested at home, continuing to recover from her abdominal surgery.

10 Prince William grinned as he arrived at the Baftas in London this evening Credit: Rex

10 The heir turned up without wife Kate, who is still recovering from surgery Credit: PA

10

10 Wills waved to fans waiting along the red carpet Credit: i-Images

10 Dua Lipa takes a selfie with fans on the red carpet Credit: Getty

It is the first major event that Kate has had to cancel following the surgery, but she is expected to resume royal duties after Easter.

And after waving to crowds along the red carpet, William made a joke about her heath.

He admitted he hadn't seen many of the nominated movies as he'd been busy at home following his wife's operation.

The royal said: “I’ve done the fewest I’ve ever done before.

“With my wife it’s been a bit . . . hopefully, we’ll catch up. I’ll make my list tonight.”

Wills said he'd made the last-minute call to head along to the awards while Kate rested at home.

The heir looked dapper in black tie as he waved and greeted fans on the red carpet in London.

He was seen chatting to well-wishers, as well as guests, like former England captain David Beckham.

But he also said he was a “big fan of Christopher Nolan” and would be pleased if Oppenheimer won an award.

The heir also said Kate had been gutted to miss the event.

Margot Robbie snubbed by Bafta as Barbie leaves empty-handed from awards ceremony

He told Elaine Bedell, chief executive of the Southbank Centre: “She does love the Baftas.”

William also told her that he had not seen Barbie but that he wanted to, adding that there were “lots of opinionated fans” outside the Royal Festival Hall.

He also took to social media after the awards, writing: "What a night!

"Honoured to be in attendance at the UK's biggest celebration of global excellence in film."

This year's ceremony at the Royal Festival Hall sees Barbie star Margot Robbie nominated for best actress.

David Tennant will host the Southbank Centre event for the first time.

Awards will be presented by stars including David Beckham, Dua Lipa, Hugh Grant and Idris Elba.

Princess Kate's surgery Kate, 42, underwent the planned operation on January 16 and stayed in the private London Clinic. Kensington Palace announced on January 17 that Kate had undergone the surgery, but confirmed it was not related in any way to cancer. The princess had been expected to spend between 10 and 14 days recovering in hospital before going home to Adelaide Cottage in Windsor. On Monday January 29, she was allowed to leave the clinic after 13 days and head home. A palace spokesperson said: “The Princess of Wales has returned home to Windsor to continue her recovery from surgery. She is making good progress. “The Prince and Princess wish to say a huge thank you to the entire team at The London Clinic, especially the dedicated nursing staff, for the care they have provided. “The Wales family continues to be grateful for the well wishes they have received from around the world.” No10 said the Princess of Wales being discharged from hospital is "welcome news for the Royal Family and the public more widely".

It is the first time William has been seen since brother Harry's bombshell interview where he announced: "I love my family."

It comes as the King was also spotted for the time since Prince Harry Harry spoke to Good Morning America in Canada.

His Majesty and Queen Camilla appeared in good spirits as they walked through the wind and rain to a service at St Mary Magdalene Church on the royal estate in Norfolk.

Charles, 75, is staying at the 20,000 acre Sandringham as he undergoes treatment for cancer.

It comes as The Sun on Sunday revealed Prince Harry was "blocked" from joining the King at the Norfolk palace during his visit to the UK.

Palace aides feared “they’d never get rid of him” after Harry jetted over 5,000 miles from California to be with his cancer-stricken dad.

The 39-year-old planned for a long heart-to-heart with the King but got 45 minutes.

Just six minutes after Harry left the meeting, the King and Queen made their way by Bentley to a helicopter in the Buckingham Palace gardens before flying to Sandringham.

Speaking at the Winter Invictus Games' One Year to Go event in Whistler, Canada, the Duke added: "Throughout all these families, I see it all on a day-to-day basis.

I am just very grateful to be a dad. Prince Harry

Harry also discussed family life and revealed the "incredible" sense of humour kids Archie, four, and Lilibet, two, have.

He added: "The kids are doing great. The kids are growing up like all kids do very very fast.

"They both got an incredible sense of humour and make us laugh and keep us grounded every single day like most kids do. I am just very grateful to be a dad."

He even revealed he had considered applying for American citizenship but stressed it was "not a high priority".

On Friday, singer Michael Bublé serenaded Prince Harry and Meghan Markle - with the singer hailing the Duke a "visionary".

The Canadian crooner, 48, re-worded Frank Sinatra's epic "My Way" in a nod to Harry at a gala dinner to close the Invictus Games' "One Year To Go" event.

Bublé also expressed "healing wishes for your dad" in tribute to cancer-stricken King Charles.

Prince Harry, wearing a dark suit and a black tie, later gave a speech where he paid tribute to Invictus Games competitors.

10 David Beckham signs autographs for fans waiting at the red carpet Credit: Getty

10 Bradley Cooper is nominated for best leading actor for the film Maestro Credit: Rex

10 William is the president of Bafta, the British Academy Film Awards Credit: Rex

10 Emma Stone and Emily Blunt pose on the red carpet at the Baftas Credit: AFP