Maya Jama's boyfriend Stormzy will enter the Love Island villa tonight in an All Stars final surprise.

The hit rapper will make an unexpected cameo on the show to support his girlfriend after he arrived in South Africa at the weekend.

3 Stormzy will make an appearance on the Love Island final tonight to cheer on Maya Jama Credit: @TikTok/Stormzy

3 Maya will reveal the winners tonight Credit: Rex

According to Mail Online, he will be in the audience to cheer on Maya and the show's winner after they are crowned this evening.

An insider told the publication: "Stormzy has flown to South Africa to be by Maya's side during the Love Island: All Stars final.

"It's no secret that he's a huge fan of the show and he knows how much it will mean to Maya, as well as the cast and crew, to show his face.

"Maya and Stormzy don't often join each other at work but when they can, it's something they love to do.

"His presence in the audience during the live final is a show first and will definitely add to the excitement of the night."

The Sun has contacted a show spokesperson for comment.

This isn't the first time the 30 year-old Grime artist has appeared on the hit ITV2 show.

In 2017, he made an appearance to address a shocked Olivia Attwood.

He told her there were "no hard feelings between them" after a tweet where he claimed her ex Chris Hughes was "too good" for her went viral.

The rapper is a huge fan of the show and he and Maya have previously shared footage to social media of them watching in together before she became the host.

His upcoming appearance on the final comes as Maya shared a glimpse of her man by her side in Cape Town.

She took to her instagram stories earlier today and filmed herself riding in one of the show buggies the production team use to ferry the cast and crew around the set.

At first Maya only showed herself posing for the camera, but then she turned the lens on the buggies mirror and Stormzy could be seen sitting next to her.

Tonight's final sees five All Stars couples in the running for the crown.

Georgia Harrison and Anton Danyluk, Sophie Piper and Josh Ritchie, Callum Jones and Jess Gale, Molly Smith and Tom Clare and Georgia Steel and Toby Aromolaran have all made the final.

It marks the climax of the show's first ever All Stars series, which kicked off on January 15 and has aired for a shorter run of five weeks.

Love Island: All-Stars finale airs tonight at 9pm on ITV2.