A TRAVEL expert has revealed the top three luggage mistakes passengers make that frustrate everyone and cause big delays.

Dealing with your luggage after boarding a flight seems simple enough.

1 Passengers risk their luggage being stored in the hold if they can't fit it in the overhead bins Credit: Getty

Yet, an experienced flyer has explained the common things people do that can infuriate other passengers when it comes to handling luggage on board.

DON'T BE A BIN HOG

A regular mistake people make when storing their bags on flights is improperly using the overhead compartments, according to the expert.

The experienced traveller, warns passengers to "head those flight-attendants announcements about only putting your bigger carry-ons in the overhead bins so there's room for everyone's bags".

Once everyone on the flight has settled and it's clear no one else needs to put their luggage above you can "go ahead and throw those backpacks, coats, scarves, umbrellas and souvenirs in there".

Passengers who can't fit their big carry-on in the overhead compartment risk having it stored in the hold "at the last minute".

DON'T BACKTRACK TO GET YOUR BAG

Other passengers find it frustrating when people "hold up the whole plane" to get to their bags five rows behind them.

Whatever you do, don’t ask someone in 32C to pass your carry-on bag over other passengers’ heads. Dawn Gilbertson

There have been too many instances of people "swimming from the bulkhead to the back" of the plane desperately trying to reach their luggage, according to experts.

Michael Mayer a management consultant from Philadelphia, said: "If there’s someone in the aisle and your bag is five rows behind you, why hold up the whole plane?"

BE AWARE OF YOUR SURROUNDINGS

You'd be surprised how little spatial awareness some people have on flights, according to travel experts.

Many have no awareness of people behind them. Diane Zeligman

Be wary as you walk down the aisle that you aren't whacking others with your luggage.

I was a flight attendant so know all the plane's hidden parts and what's behind the toilet mirror always surprises people

Diane Zeligmam, who lives in Toronto says she is tired of being hit by other people's backpacks as they trundle down the aircraft.

By being aware of your surroundings and considerate to others you improve your flying experience and your fellow passengers as well, the experts claim.

It comes after a GP listed the four things you should never wear on flights.

And a flight attendant has warned about a "hidden danger" on flights that passengers are simply unaware of.