*If you click on a link in this story we will earn affiliate revenue.

ARE you ready to wake up to the skin of your dreams?

Look no further than Nip + Fab’s Ceramide Fix Overnight Repair Cream, the holy grail product that’s got beauty enthusiasts buzzing with excitement.

3 Get an exclusive 10% off Nip + Fab Ceramide Fix Overnight Repair Cream with The Sun. Credit: Nip + Fab

Save 10% off Nip + Fab Ceramide Fix Overnight Repair Cream with code: CERAMIDE10 – shop now

For a limited time, The Sun readers can enjoy an extra 10% off when purchasing the award-winning cream using code CERAMIDE10 at checkout.

With its powerhouse formula and rave reviews, this overnight miracle worker is destined to become your new skincare obsession.

Firstly, the science. As we age, our skin’s natural ceramide levels take a nosedive, leaving us vulnerable to moisture loss and environmental aggressors.

But fear not, Nip + Fab’s Ceramide Fix Overnight Repair Cream is packed with ceramides, essential lipids that keep our skin hydrated and resilient.

The rich formula works overtime to replenish and fortify your skin’s protective barrier, producing some revolutionary results.

3 The results speak for themselves. Credit: Nip + Fab

This Nip + Fab cream is the winner of the prestigious 2023 Get the Gloss Beauty Awards and fans have been leaving five-star reviews in droves.

One happy customer raved, “Amazing overnight cream. I use it during the day as well. Lovely creamy texture that absorbs right in.”

Another satisfied customer, shares, “My skin lost its glow. I changed moisturisers with no improvement. Saw this advertised and bought it in desperation. Aren’t I glad I did. Really impressed with this. Skin feels nice and looks glowy. Will buy it again for sure.”

3 Nip + Fab’s Ceramide Fix Overnight Repair Cream visibly reduces redness and fine lines. Credit: Nip + Fab

Other reviewers have also remarked on how good the cream is for sensitive skin and for helping to reduce the appearance of fine lines.

One beauty fan noted, “Lovely product leaves skin soft and improves appearance of frown lines”.

Another revealed, “This is my favourite night cream and now I won’t use anything else. Like butter on the skin, and calm and good for sensitive skin.”

And if glowing reviews weren’t enough to convince you, several clinical trials might: Nip + Fab doesn’t mess around when it comes to proving its products’ efficacy.

Clinically tested and proven to increase skin moisturisation by up to 141.34% in just four weeks? Check.

Improving skin texture and feel by up to 55% in the same timeframe? Double check.

Oh, and did we mention it increases skin firmness and elasticity too? Because it does.

And that’s not all – it even improves transepidermal water loss. Talk about a game-changer.

So, what are you waiting for? Say hello to your best skin ever with Nip + Fab’s Ceramide Fix Overnight Repair Cream and use code CERAMIDE10 at checkout for an extra 10% off.

Want to find more savings on your online shopping? Then head to Sun Vouchers where you can get discounts and voucher codes from hundreds of top retailers including B&Q, Boots, Iceland, Lookfantastic, Dunelm, Adidas, Marks & Spencer and more.