IT is 8.30pm and Jo ­Ciriani is settling down in front of the telly with a glass of wine after finishing work, cooking dinner then putting her six-year-old to bed.

While for many couples this is the ideal time for a catch-up, cuddle or even getting a bit frisky, Jo’s other half Graham Todd is already out for the count beside her.

3 Jo's other half Todd is one of a growing number of men in their forties and fifties who have swapped binge-drinking and kebabs for sobriety and fitness Credit: David Cummings - Commissioned by The Sun

He won’t wake until 4.30am when he’ll spring out of bed for an ice bath, workout and to cook his nutritious but predictable meals of chicken and rice for the day.

Graham, who goes by his surname Todd, is one of a growing number of men in their forties or fifties who have swapped binge-drinking and kebabs for sobriety and fitness.

It was about a decade ago when M.A.M.I.L.s — middle-aged men in Lycra — emerged on to the fitness scene.

But today, more and more fitness-obsessed blokes are quitting booze.

Famous S.M.A.M.I.L.s — sober middle-aged men in Lycra — include Peter Andre, Mark Wahlberg, ­Robbie Williams and Matt Willis.

‘Asleep in pub car park’

About 200,000 Brits did Dry January this year.

A growing number of men are “99 per cent sober”, abstaining apart from the odd drink on very special occasions.

3 For formers binge-drinkers like Todd, fitness can actually be a way to fill a void Credit: TikTok / @thecontentcowboy

Are you a grey zone drinker? 6 questions determine if you have a problem with alcohol & what to do before it gets worse

And one in every five people in England describe themselves as a non drinker.

For those who were addicted to alcohol, or at least to binge-drinking, like Todd, fitness is a way to fill that void.

There are of course many health benefits, and partners like Jo reap the rewards in many ways — she admits Todd is now a better father to daughter Bobbi, six.

But when it comes to their social lives and how they spend time together as a couple, things have certainly changed for the once fun-loving party animals.

Jo, 44, says: “Todd is a much better partner and father since he quit drinking, and he looks fantastic.

“But his desire to party and see friends has fallen away and I find that tricky.

“Because Todd wakes up at 4.30am now, he often passes out on the sofa by 8pm. So watching a Netflix series takes a long time.

“Plus, I’m a night owl. So I often just do my own thing in the evenings.

“I don’t mind a bit of ‘me time’ and the chance to control the remote, but it can be a bit lonely.

“Cooking nice meals together is another thing I miss. In the past, we might have prepared a lovely steak with a nice bottle of red — although Todd would probably have drunk the majority of it.

“He’s so focused on his healthy eating nowadays that his meals can be a bit boring for me.

“I end up cooking something different and eating alone.”

When you are parents, spending the day in bed after a bender isn’t viable — or fair on your child and partner Jo Ciriani

Todd, 45, and Jo run an online marketing business in Warwick, and it was a messy work night out in September 2021 that persuaded Todd to go sober.

Jo says: “Todd is an outgoing, big character and has always liked a drink.

“When we met, he was working for a wine merchant and it was his passion.

“But he’d get carried away and do stupid things after a few drinks. He could get very lairy and clumsy.

“He’d spill red wine or fall over and break stuff.

“While I’m sociable and like a drink too, I can happily stop after a couple.

“It could lead to rows and once I even went to sleep at my parents’ house for the night, though he ended up following me.

“My Italian heritage is that from a young age you are allowed a little glass of watered-down wine with dinner and bingeing isn’t the norm.”

Jo adds: “Before we had our daughter, Bobbi, it was less of an issue as Todd could sleep it off the next day.

“But when you are parents, spending the day in bed after a bender isn’t viable — or fair on your child and partner.

“Todd was drinking around 20 pints and two bottles of wine a week.

“On Sundays if we had a roast, he’d drink a bottle of red and fall asleep.

“His drinking meant he was often hung over and grumpy at weekends, leading to arguments. He was four stone overweight and probably pre-diabetic.

“I was worried about him but my pleas fell on deaf ears.”

But Todd had his own awakening after the duo held a business networking event at a pub in Warwick.

Jo says: “It was going really well and Todd was working the room, but then he started doing shots of Sambuca, having started drinking at midday.

“I went home before him and he never followed.

“I ended up calling the pub and it turned out he’d blacked out and fallen asleep on the ground in the car park at about 10.30pm.

“I had to go back to rescue him and it took three people to lift him into the car.

“There was video footage of him drunk from that night and when he saw it he was mortified. Someone had taken it on their phone.

“He was doing shots and pulling drunken faces. It might have seemed funny to other people but it wasn’t to us.

‘Hot new dad bod’

“It’s one thing acting foolish when you are young but it’s not appropriate as you get older and need to be professional.”

This public humiliation was the catalyst for Todd, who was 43 at the time, to quit booze entirely.

3 Jo notices that Todd is now more present for daughter Bobbi, six — shown after his transformation on the right

Jo says: “He was like a different person — and replaced alcohol with exercise.

He started getting up at 5am to work out, taking ice baths and cooking healthy meals of rice and chicken.

“He was more energetic and more present for me and our daughter. He was getting back from his gym in time to have breakfast with us and take her to school.

“It made a nice change but I was definitely dubious about whether he could sustain it.”

He did, though, and his 4st of excess weight dropped off.

Jo adds: “He looked so much leaner and fitter. He needed to buy new clothes. Gone was the beer belly and he had a hot new dad bod, which I found really attractive.

“Plus he had loads more energy. It meant we became both physically and emotionally close.”

While their body clocks weren’t in sync, with Jo staying up late and Todd waking early, she did feel more attracted to him.

But she says: “It wasn’t looks that fuelled my renewed attraction, it was the improvements in our lives.

“He was sharing more of the mental load and doing more at home, meaning I wasn’t worrying about my ‘to do’ list.

“That helped me feel less resentment and more affection.”

This became the new normal and Todd is now more than two years sober. But there are times Jo misses her drinking partner.

But despite our differing sleep times, we have managed to make time for sex Jo Ciriani

She says: “Unlike Todd, I’ve not quit alcohol — I didn’t need to. I’ve never drunk a lot but I like a gin and tonic or two to relax.

“Yet I did find it strange to be drinking alone, whether we were just hanging out at home on a Friday night or going out for a meal. It made me feel guilty.

“I sometimes wish we could have a drink together because I’m able to have a few drinks and feel more relaxed, but he just can’t do that.

“Socialising together throws up challenges too. We are both extroverts and love being around others. But he now finds it really hard to relax around drunk people.

“The other change was his sleeping patterns. But despite our differing sleep times, we have managed to make time for sex.

“Where there’s a will, there’s a way — and I’ll happily have an early night with him, especially as he’s done so much work on himself that he’s more ­attractive to look at and doesn’t have stale beer breath.”

In fact, Jo feels the benefits of the new Todd outweigh the drawbacks.

She says: “He would previously be hung over all weekend and we used to argue. Mondays at work were a write-off as he’d binge on weekends.

“He now does more around the house and has plenty of energy to look after our daughter.

“It’s been an adjustment for both of us, but I wouldn’t go back.

“I’d rather have a sober, fit, involved partner who goes to bed a bit early than a smelly, boozy, hung-over guy.”

TODD SAYS... “I ALWAYS thought I was a “good drunk” but as I got older, I wasn’t able to be the sort of partner or dad I wanted to be as I was hung over and grumpy on the weekend. I grew up in that binge-drinking culture, so I could never just have a glass and walk away. I used to think people who didn’t drink were boring – but now I’m one of them. Not that I think I’m boring now. When you are around drunk people, you realise a lot of their behaviour and conversations are actually very dull. Some of my friends have fallen by the wayside now, but the real ones have stayed and we find other things to do, or I have a non-alcoholic drink with them. I try not to be preachy about it, but alcohol wrecks lives and relationships. I still find certain social situations hard, but I believe I’m a better human being now and I can only stay sober by breaking old habits. Jo’s support has been invaluable in that. I know it means she’s had to make changes to accommodate me and I love her for that.” Todd has been documenting his journey, including the low points, on TikTok as @thecontentcowboy.

SLOW AND STEADY WINS THE RACE

RELATIONSHIP expert Georgina Sturmer says:

“Our partner offers us a sense of certainty, an anchor in an ever-changing world.

If they are changing, this can feel as if the status quo of the relationship is shifting.

We might feel as if we have less in common, particularly if a shared habit was something that we would do together – if we were each other’s “partner in crime”.

This shift can take us by surprise. We might also feel judged, consciously or subconsciously, and under pressure to follow suit.

Communication is key, so talk about it but avoid the blame game.

Understand that we cannot change other people – and really shouldn’t try.

If we are embracing a behaviour change, it’s natural to feel evangelical about it. But remember that we all need to make our own decisions. Strengthen your common ground.

If one of you quitting alcohol is having a big impact on your social life or leisure time, then work together to find other ways to have fun as a couple.

Finally, consider the pace of change. If you are rushing headlong into new habits, it might be helpful to apply the brakes a little.”