RECENTLY we saw Kylie Jenner get savagely ‘face-shamed’ for looking ‘so old’ despite being just 26.

The reality star was seen at the Jean Paul Gaultier Spring/Summer 2024 Couture Show in Paris, as part of Paris Fashion Week, but as she posed for photographers, many were left stunned at the mum-of-two’s face - as people accused the star of having surgery and looking years beyond her age.

7 Kylie Jenner was recently face-shamed for looking 'so old' at her appearance at the Jean Paul Gaultier Spring/Summer 2024 Couture Show Credit: GETTY

7 Now her mum Kris Jenner has caused a lot of discussion online, after fans described her most recent selfies as 'freaky' and 'scary' Credit: instagram@krisjenner

7 Kris looks worlds away from this picture, in 2007 Credit: Getty

But now, her mum Kris, 68, has also come under fire for going too far with surgery and cosmetic enhancements.

The momager took to Instagram, sharing a series of stunning selfies, but people were left gobsmacked at Kris’s face, with many going as far to say she looked “scary”.

One person said: “It's getting a little freaky. It's giving uncanny valley.”

Another added: “This is very scary.”

A third commented: “The cheeks look like a puppet.”

Whilst someone else admitted: “I'M SCARED.”

At the same time, another fan penned: “She looks like the Joker from Batman.”

While the Kardashians have been reserved about sharing their cosmetic surgery journeys, Kris has previously admitted to having Botox, fillers, a boob job, and a facelift.

As a result, we spoke to Dr Fadi Hamaani, plastic surgeon and aesthetic doctor at Fadi Hamaani Clinic, as well as Saleena Zimri, Founder of Skin Doctor Clinics and Expert at Teoxane, to get the lowdown on what cosmetic work they believe Kris has had done recently.

Saleena Zimri told Fabulous: “A photo can be hard to judge exactly what someone has or hasn't had done.

“As we know, celebrities and influencers on social media can use filters whether it's to smooth or shape their appearance, and in [these recent photos], there is minimal show of skin texture.

Kris Jenner is 'filler-fatigued in Super Bowl ad & overfilled Jennifer Aniston could copy her tip to avoid puffy face'

“Filler will smooth and plump the skin, but even with good filler, I like to use the Teoxane brand, and as with any aesthetic treatments, there is still going to be skin texture and a natural finish that isn't going to create a "too tight" lifted look.

“Kris has admitted to previous facelift surgery, and going off [her recent social media posts], it's possible she may have had another one.

"But also she's someone who I imagine has a consistent amount of maintenance work done with natural looking filler work, as well as lasers/energy based devices."

Not only this, but Dr Fafi Hamaani told Fabulous: “Kris Jenner looks great for her age, but it's very likely she has had some help along the way in terms of aesthetic and surgical treatments.

“It appears she has had some facial rejuvenation treatments to the lower face and neck, possibly a facelift or treatment such as FaceTite which works on lifting and contouring the face and neck to give a more youthful appearance.”

Not only this, but Dr Fadi revealed that the Kardashian family have previously been open about having Morpheus8 - a non-surgical solution that reduces fine lines, scars and rejuvenates skin.

She may have also had upper eyelid surgery to prevent droopy eyelids Dr Fafi Hamaani

She continued: “The Kardashians have openly shared their love for treatments such as Morpheus8 which work to tighten the skin and help enhance collagen production.

“It's likely Kris has these treatments on a regular basis to improve overall skin texture and firmness.

“It's very likely Kris has also had a rhinoplasty, as her nose looks noticeably different to pictures from many years ago.

“She may have also had upper eyelid surgery to prevent droopy eyelids.”

Kris has admitted to previous facelift surgery, and it's possible she may have had another one Saleena Zimri

Not only this, but in a recent Oreo advertisement, we saw the Kardashian-Jenner matriarch.

Discussing Kris's 'filler-fatigued' face, plastic surgeon Dr. Richard Westreich told the US Sun: "Kris looks very young and smooth in the Oreo commercial.

"She has filler fatigue, so has moved toward Sculptra.

"This stimulates the collagen instead of puffing the face out.

"It is also a skin hydrating treatment so she may be doing that with resurfacing.

"The three treatments of Sculptra and the laser would total around $20,000 [£15,900] a year for Kris."

Fabulous will pay for your exclusive stories. Just email: fabulousdigital@the-sun.co.uk and pop EXCLUSIVE in the subject line.

7 Kris has previously admitted to having Botox, fillers, a boob job, and a facelift Credit: Getty

7 We spoke to plastic surgeon Dr Fadi Hamaani and Saleena Zimri, Founder of Skin Doctor Clinics, to get the lowdown on what they expect has happened to the momager's face Credit: instagram/@krisjenner

7 Many thought her new look was 'scary' and experts predict she has had upper eyelid surgery, filler and treatments such as FaceTite Credit: 2024 Marc Piasecki