SUNSPORT understands that the FAI board - who must approve or veto any job offer - have NOT been called to a meeting

NEW MAN Chris Coleman emerges as contender for Republic of Ireland vacant manager’s position as FAI alter shortlist



CHRIS COLEMAN would be interested in the Ireland post - but no one has been offered the position yet with no board meeting planned to approve an appointment.

FAI Director of Football Marc Canham has begun to shorten his shortlist to replace Stephen Kenny with unsuccessful candidates called over the weekend.

3 FAI director of football Marc Canham has begun calling candidates who are no longer being considered

3 Former Wales boos Chris Coleman s now understood to be a serious contender for the position

3 England U21 head coach Lee Carsley is also still understood to be on the FAI's shortlist

But SunSport understands that the FAI board - who must approve or veto any job offer - have NOT been called to a meeting.

The 14-person board met remotely twice last week, though it was to discuss this Thursday’s appearance in front of the Oireachtas Public Accounts Committee.

And their next arranged in-person meeting is not until next week, though an online summit could be arranged at a few hours notice if required.

But the board has not been put on notice for a possible meeting, while Canham’s public launch of the FAI’s Footballer’s Pathways Plan on Tuesday is still going ahead as scheduled.

SunSport reported on Friday that Lee Carsley remains the front runner for the position though a stumbling block is wages.

Neil Lennon - the only manager to publicly confirm his interest in the post - is not high up the FAI’s list and understood to be out of the running.

Former Ireland coach Anthony Barry also rebuffed an approach to focus on his work with Bayern Munich and Portugal.

OTHER CANDIDATES

Shelbourne manager Damien Duff - who preceded Barry as Ireland coach - revealed he also was not interested when approached by an intermediary.

There is also speculation that John O’Shea, who also worked under Kenny, interests the FAI while Roy Keane and Mick McCarthy were on the shortlist.

But former Ireland boss Brian Kerr revealed last week that Chris Hughton was not a contender as he takes time out after leaving his post with Ghana.

Bookmakers closed betting markets this weekend after a spate of bets on former Wales boss Chris Coleman, who left his post at Greek club Atromitos last October.

And it is understood that the 53-year-old, who has Irish roots as his late father was from Dublin, did meet the FAI during the process.

Coleman is currently in Malaysia doing media work but rose to prominence in management when he guided Wales to the semi-finals at Euro 2016.

He quit the post following their failure to reach the 2018 World Cup, as they were beaten to a play-off spot by Ireland, and has since worked with Sunderland, Hebei in China and Atromitos.

While the search for a manager has now taken nearly three months, the FAI has been working behind the scenes to appoint a backroom staff with interviews conducted late last week.