The outlook for the week has revealed some changing weather events

COLD SNAP Met Eireann forecast for ‘heavy’ and ‘widespread’ rain before major temperature turn across Ireland

A MAJOR temperature turn is on the cards for the week ahead as heavy rain will hit across Ireland - and even some snow is expected too.

The latest weather forecast from Met Eireann states that we can expect heavy rain midweek before temperatures drop to as low as 1C overnight.

3 Today, Monday, will be mainly dry with some sunny spells, Met Eireann said Credit: Met Eireann

3 It will stay dry for much of Monday night before rain develops during the week Credit: Met Eireann

Some late showers will fall as sleet or even snow as there is a chance people will wake up to a frosty morning later in the week.

Alan O'Reilly of Carlow Weather said that it'll be a "nice bright start to the week" before Tuesday starts off with a band of heavy rain moving down the country.

This will continue into Tuesday night before clearing up on Wednesday morning, he said.

Mr O'Reilly added: "Staying mild up to Wednesday but turning much cooler from Thursday and likely to stay cool then for a few days or possibly longer with some wintry showers possible on high ground.

"Uncertainty around the details for the weekend with risk of heavy rain but latest charts keep it South of Ireland so hopefully that stays that way."

Today, Monday, will be mainly dry with some sunny spells, Met Eireann said.

It'll start clouding in during the afternoon, with patches of light rain or drizzle developing in the north later on.

Highest temperatures of 9C to 12C in light to moderate westerly winds, becoming southerly and freshening later.

Then it will be dry for much of tonight, but rain will develop in the west by morning.

The lowest temperatures of 7C to 9C will happen early in the night, rising overnight. Winds will be fresh to strong southwesterly.

Tuesday is due to see rain extending southeastwards over the country.

This will clear quickly following from the northwest.

Highest temperatures of 9C to 12C with fresh southwest winds, veering moderate to fresh westerly as the rain clears.

Heavy rain extending to all areas

Then it will be dry at first on Tuesday night before rain returns from the southwest, turning heavy in places as it extends to all areas through the night.

Lowest temperatures of 4C to 6C with light to moderate southerly winds.



Wednesday is when the widespread rain will hit at first before clearing eastwards to showers.

It'll be breezy with fresh to strong and gusty southwesterly winds veering westerly, with the clearance of the rain introducing much colder weather. Highest temperatures of 10C to 14C.

Occasional sleet or snow

Showers from the west overnight Wednesday night will occasionally fall as sleet or snow, Met Eireann said.

Lowest temperatures 1C or 2C in mainly moderate southwest winds overnight into Thursday.

Sunshine and showers or longer spells of rain on Thursday, most persistent over the western half of the country, turning to sleet and snow at times

Highest temperatures of 5C to 9C in moderate to fresh southwest winds.

Unsettled outlook

Thursday night will again be cold and frosty in places with showers mostly confined to western coastal areas.

A cold and showery day on Friday, with showers again turning to sleet and snow at times.

Highest temperatures 5C to 7C with moderate westerly winds.



The further outlook suggests the unsettled conditions will continue with the chance of frost at night ongoing.