The production team was in close contact with Sarah's parents

KILLER COP DOC Sarah Everard documentary focusing on police failings in probe of murder by cop Wayne Couzens is to be released by BBC

A NEW documentary by the BBC will focus on police failings in the probe of Sarah Everard's murder by cop Wayne Couzens.

The Met officer carried out a fake arrest to kidnap Sarah, 33, as she walked home from a friend's home in Clapham, South West London.

5 The BBC has announced a new documentary looking at the murder of Sarah Everard Credit: PA

5 Wayne Couzens abducted her as she walked home in March 2021 Credit: PA

Couzens then raped and murdered the marketing executive, whose burnt body was found a week later more than 50 miles away in Kent.

The new documentary looks at the Met's investigation into Sarah's murder, how the devastating crime unfolded and its impact.

It is told by those closely involved in the case including the Senior Investigating Officer, the Prosecuting Barrister and Sarah's local MP.

Many of them are speaking on camera for the first time.

The film is being made by BBC Studios Documentary Unit.

During the making of the film, the production team was in close contact with Sarah's parents.

They hope that it will bring increased focus to issues of women's safety, and abuse of power by police and other in positions of authority.

Emma Loach, BBC Lead Commissioning Editor, Documentaries, said: "The murder of Sarah Everard sent shock waves across the country and ignited an urgent conversation about police failings and violence against women and girls.

"This is an important and timely film and we, like Sarah's family, hope it will contribute to the ongoing dialogue around the issues raised."

Sarah's murderer is serving his life sentence at HMP Frankland in Durham.

He had previously been locked up at HMP Belmarsh in London.

I was evil Wayne Couzens' childhood pal - chilling signs revealed reality of his sick mind

Ex-cop Couzens pleaded guilty to the murder of Sarah on Friday, July 9, 2021, after having previously pleaded guilty to her kidnap and rape.

Couzens appeared via video link at the Old Bailey as Sarah's family watched from the public gallery.

Then, on September 30, 2021, Couzens was given a full life sentence for Sarah's murder and was told that he would die in prison.

Just 61 criminals in the UK have had this sentence imposed, with Couzens being the first British cop to ever receive it.

Lord Justice Fulford explained at the time that the rare sentencing was given due to the fact Couzens had abused his position as a police officer.

The judge said: "Sarah Everard was a wholly blameless victim of a grotesquely executed series of circumstances that culminated in her death and the disposal of her body. She was simply walking home.”

He told how Couzens spent a month travelling from his home in Deal, Kent, to London while hatching a gruesome plan to "hunt a lone female to kidnap and rape".

Lord Justice Fulford said Couzens carried out "warped, selfish and brutal offending that was both sexual and homicidal".

Meanwhile pictures of police crushing Patsy Stevenson at Everard's vigil shocked Britain.

The student was one of hundreds of women, including the Princess of Wales, who converged on a makeshift shrine in Clapham Common where Sarah had taken her final journey on March 3, 2021.

But before the evening was over, her slightly built frame was pinned to the ground by two police officers.

A photo of Patsy, from Essex, being held face-down with her hands behind her back ended up on newspaper front pages and TV news programmes both at home and abroad.

Police watchdog hit with 75% rise in complaints THE police watchdog has been swamped with a 75 per cent rise in complaints about rogue cops following the murder of Sarah Everard. The Independent Office for Police Conduct got 7,000 referrals from 43 forces in England and Wales in the past year. That compares to 4,000 a year before off-duty Met cop Wayne Couzens, 51, raped and murdered Sarah, 33, in 2021. The IOPC has the resources to tackle only 300 cases a year, so the vast majority are passed back to individual police forces to deal with. Meanwhile it has asked the Government to boost disciplinary hearing powers so dodgy cops can be barred like doctors. A Home Office spokesman said: "The public put their trust in the police and we expect them to carry out their duties to the highest professional standards. "We have taken steps to improve the culture within policing and raise standards across the board, including strengthening vetting standards and establishing the Angiolini Inquiry to uncover any systemic issues in policing. "We are actively working with the IOPC on its funding requirements to ensure it can deliver its core functions."

He added: "Sarah Everard's state of mind, and what she had to endure would have been as bleak and agonising as it is possible to imagine."

In October 2021 it was reported that Couzens had lodged an appeal against his sentence.

His appeal against his whole-life term was rejected by the Court of Appeal in July 2022.

In March 2023 Couzens was sentenced to an additional 19 months in prison for flashing a cyclist while on duty and exposing himself to McDonald's staff before he murdered Sarah.

He pleaded guilty to three indecent exposure offences in February 2023.

McDonald's staff were left "shaken, upset and angry" over two incidents, which took place on February 14, 2021, and February 27, of Couzens pulling his trousers down whilst paying for his food.

The third indecent exposure offence took place on November 13, 2020, and saw Couzens, who was on duty at the time, step out of a wooded area naked in Deal and perform a sex act on himself as a female cycled past.

5 Couzens lured his victim under the pretence of a Covid arrest Credit: SWNS

5 CCTV showed the pair standing next to a vehicle in Clapham Credit: PA

5 Counzens in court at the Old Bailey Credit: PA