ANOTHER day, another 'miracle' skincare remedy that's gone viral on TikTok.

This time, it's spearmint tea - users claim this 'miracle' drink can give you perfect skin and help clear hormonal acne naturally.

5 Putting tea bag into glass cup full of hot water Credit: Getty

5 TikTok users claim this 'miracle' drink can help diminish hormonal acne

Like many TikTok famous remedies, this one does seem slightly too good to be true.

But dermatologists have also jumped on the spearmint tea bandwagon, saying there might be some credence to this trend.

So, Sun Health asked skin experts for their verdict on the drink - can it really help clear acne and give you perfect skin?

What is spearmint tea?

You'd be forgiven for thinking that spearmint is just plain old mint.

But 'mint' is an umbrella term for a few different plants, including peppermint.

Dr Kaywaan Khan, a GP and advanced aesthetics practitioner at Harley Street clinic Hannah London, explained that spearmint tea is brewed from the leaves of the spearmint plant called Mentha Spicata.

"The plant has pink, white or lilac small flowers, with a sweet mint fragrance.

"The leaves contain compounds called polyphenols which are known for their anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant, and anti-bacterial properties, which can neutralise free radicals that can damage skin cells and contribute to acne."

You might have heart the term 'free radicals' before in connection to skin health and skincare.

Free radicals are unstable atoms that have the ability to interact freely any other molecule and can trigger chemical reactions in the body called oxidation, damaging the cells and DNA by altering their chemical structure.

Sun Health Explainer: Skin rashes - eczema, psoriasis, sepsis

This can result in signs of ageing as well pimples.

We come into contact with free radicals from exposure to sun and pollution, as well as tobacco smoke and poor diet.

Can spearmint tea calm hormonal acne?

Over TikTok, spearmint tea has been touted for its hormone balancing properties - hence its alleged ability to clear hormonal spots and manage conditions like polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).

This is a common condition that affects how women's ovaries work, causing irregular periods, fluid-filled sacks on the ovaries and excess amounts of 'male' hormones called androgens.

Androgens are also at play in hormonal acne, with studies linking the hormones to increased oil production that causes spots.

According to Dr Khan, hormonal acne develops when androgens "are out of sync".

"Female bodies have androgens too, which are namely testosterone and dihydrotestosterone," he explained.

"They are the main culprits driving hormonal acne.

"We know that androgens can increase sebum production and make the lining of the oil ducts stickier, resulting in clogged pores which can then lead to hormonal breakouts.

"These can be deep, painful cysts that typically occur around the jawline and lower face."

Dr Khan said research has looked into whether spearmint tea has the potential to lower androgen levels.

He cited a controlled trial, where 42 volunteers either drank spearmint tea or regular herbal tea twice a day for one month.

Their hormone levels were checked at the start of the study, 15 days in and after 30 days.

At the end of the month, researchers found that the group of women who drank the spearmint tea had significantly decreased levels of testosterone.

Dr Khan said of the results: "Whilst these findings are promising, more research for a longer time period is needed to confirm spearmint tea's effectiveness and understand its mechanisms."

Cigdem Kemal-Yilmaz, chemical engineer and founder of Skin Masterclass, echoed Dr Khan in saying there was not enough scientific research to support that spearmint tea can alone manage hormonal acne or conditions PCOS.

"While spearmint tea contains certain compounds that have been suggested to have anti-androgenic properties - meaning they may reduce the production or effects of male hormones like testosterone - there is little evidence supporting its efficacy in treating acne," she told Sun Health.

So, what's the verdict?

Dr Khan ackowledged that he'd had some clients with hormonal acne notice improvements to their skin after drinking spearmint tea, as well as eating healthier foods and herbs.

"We know that acne is somewhat attributed to the internal workings of the body such as the changes to our hormones, and we are learning that diet can play a significant role in this," he explained.

"In the past, we used to say that diet has no effect on acne, but there is evidence showing this is the case.

"Patients report when they eat lots of sugary foods or dairy, their acne flares up and worsens."

So while what you eat can make your acne worse, making healthier choices overall - whether or not that includes spearmint tea - can regulate your hormones and improve the look of your skin.

Though both skin experts acknowledged that spearmint tea might be able to bring down androgen-levels, there were hesitant to suggest that the drink could cure hormonal acne on its own.

Dr Khan said: "While spearmint tea cannot act as a standalone treatment for acne, this combined with healthy diet and skincare routine, will likely help."

Meanwhile, Cigdem stressed: "Whilst it's understandable that individuals are seeking natural remedies for their skincare concerns, it's crucial to rely on scientifically backed treatments."

She explained the spots and hormonal acne in particular are influenced by multiple factors such as genetics, hormones and inflammation.

"While hormonal fluctuations, including those seen in conditions like PCOS, can contribute to acne development, managing this type of acne requires addressing the underlying hormonal imbalance alongside other contributing factors.

The skin expert went on: "Incorporating spearmint tea into your diet may have some potential health benefits, relying solely on diet or herbal remedies without addressing other contributing factors is unlikely to be effective in clearing acne."

How much spearmint tea should I have?

If you do want to give spearmint tea a go, Dr Khan suggested you sip on no more than two cups of loose leaf spearmint tea a day.

"Spearmint tea is readily available at the supermarkets," he said.

You can also can a pack on Amazon for £2.80.

But don't make the mistake of adding milk or sugar to your mug, Dr Khan added, as these can add to the glycaemic load of your drink.

Food and drink with a high glycaemic load can spike your insulin levels, which can in turn lead to clogged pores and potentially more acne, he explained.

"It's essential to note that while spearmint tea may offer some benefits, it should not replace medical treatment or advice for hormonal imbalances or conditions," the skin expert added.

What are some other ways I can manage my acne?

The way to treat hormonal acne is to find a way to balance excess male hormones, according to Dr Khan.

"Your GP might recommend spironolactone, as it blocks androgens from causing acne," he said.

But the medication can have some side effects, such as birth defects in developing babies, so you have to be on birth control if you are taking this medication.

"Oral contraceptive pills can also be used to treat acne, which work by modulating hormones in your body to balance them," Dr Khan added.

Cidgem meanwhile, suggested some topical treatments you could try.

"Benzoyl peroxide, azelaic Acid, and retinoids have been extensively studied and shown to effectively reduce acne," she said.

"Benzoyl peroxide works by killing the acne-causing bacteria, reducing inflammation, and unclogging pores.

"Azelaic acid helps to normalise the shedding of skin cells, reduce inflammation, and inhibit the growth of the bacteria that cause acne.

"Retinoids, derived from Vitamin A, can also help to unclog pores and contain anti-inflammatory properties which can reduce redness."

You can get these meds in gel, cream and lotion form, tailored to your skin time, but Cigdem recommended you speak to an expert before trying new treatments.

"I recommend consulting with a dermatologist or healthcare professional to discuss your individual treatment needs to ensure that you manage your overall skin health safely and effectively," she advised.

5 TikTok dermatologists have suggested that spearmint tea can help treat acne Credit: TikTok/@drabby6

5 While the tea might help balance hormones, it's not recommended as a standalone treatment Credit: Getty