CHRISTIAN Horner has been seen for the first time since bombshell claims he sent "sexual messages" to a colleague were made.

The Red Bull boss, 50, is under investigation following the shock claims made by a female employee.

9 Christian Horner at Badbury Rings Point to Point in Dorset Credit: Splash

9 He walked about with his hands in his pockets Credit: Splash

9 Horner clutched binoculars as he stood on top of a car Credit: Splash

9 Geri and Horner pictured at a Point to Point on January 27 Credit: gerihalliwellhorner/Instagram

He has vehemently denied all allegations and was initially only under investigation over alleged controlling behaviour at work.

But in recent days, fresh claims allege Horner also sent her "sexually suggestive" texts.

Horner was yesterday pictured watching the racehorse he owns with wife Geri Halliwell, Lift Me Up, come second.

He was seen strolling through Badbury Rings Point to Point in Dorset alone.

The F1 chief wore striped wellies and a bag as he walked over the grass with his hands stuffed in his pockets.

It is unclear whether Geri, who he usually attends horseracing events with, was there.

The Sun exclusively revealed Horner - who married Geri in 2015 - was being supported by all the Spice Girls.

A source said: “They are quietly supporting her behind the scenes and checking in to make sure she is OK.

“Geri has been left ­broken by the ordeal, but is grateful for the kindness being shown to her by friends.”

The ex-Spice Girl, who was "in floods of tears" when the Red Bull boss was hit with the bombshell allegations, fears the drama will drag on for years, a source has claimed.

But Geri, 51, is understood to be standing by her husband.

She has told pals: “Christian has done nothing wrong.”

Christian Horner praises Red Bull's 'very inclusive team culture' in first public appearance since 'behaviour’ probe

It comes after F1 yesterday released a statement on the allegations.

F1 said in a statement today: "We hope that the matter will be clarified at the earliest opportunity after a fair and thorough process.

"We have noted Red Bull has instigated an independent investigation into internal allegations at Red Bull Racing.

"We will not comment further at this time."

A final decision on the probe into the accusations could come out as early as next week, reports claim.

It comes as...

Ford were said to have put pressure on their future partners at Red Bull Racing to investigate the outcome "seriously but quickly".

Reports say this could mean Horner could find out his fate much sooner than originally expected.

Horner has said to be hoping the investigation is resolved within the next week — when the team will fly to Bahrain for pre-season testing.

He would be expected to fly out as team manager.

Dutch newspaper De Telegraaf, claimed to have seen ­messages at the heart of the probe and have alleged they were “sexually orientated”.

The paper reported that Horner allegedly sent sex messages to the woman employee “over an extended period of time”.

Messages were said to have been saved and presented as evidence to the external ­barrister running the inquiry after the woman made a complaint last December.

Horner publicly addressed the allegations against him for the first time at the launch of the RB20 this week.

He said: “Inevitably there has been a distraction, but the team are very together.

“Everybody’s focused on the season ahead, so it’s been very much business as ­normal and the support has been fantastic.

“In situations like these, you see where the strengths are, and it’s been overwhelming the support that I’ve had from within the team.

“There have been some allegations made, which I fully deny, so that the investigation is very much going on in the background whilst preparing for the season ahead, and hopefully it will be concluded in the near future.”

What has been claimed? F1 was rocked earlier this month by the sudden news that the sport's longest-standing team principal had been placed under investigation by Red Bull's Austria-based parent company. This was thought to be over a "dossier of incriminating material” regarding "inappropriate and controlling behaviour" towards one female, The Telegraph reported. Red Bull’s Austrian parent company flew an independent lawyer to the UK to question the multi-millionaire race ace and his accuser. The former racing driver, who runs world champion Max Verstappen’s all-conquering Red Bull team, endured an eight-hour grilling over the claims last week. Most recently however, more allegations have come out as the De Telegraaf reported that Horner allegedly sent sex messages to his employee “over an extended period of time”. Messages were said to have been saved and presented as evidence to the external ­barrister running the inquiry after the woman made a complaint last December. Mr Horner categorically denied the new allegations and is thought to be taking legal action against De Telegraaf. An F1 source told The Sun last week that "Christian has not been sacked or asked to resign and he is not going to resign". The investigation raises the question of who could take over the helm of the all-conquering racing team of world champion Max Verstappen. His wife Geri Halliwell is also said to be "terrified her life will unravel" amid Horner's "inappropriate behaviour" probe. The ex-Spice Girl, who was "in floods of tears" when the Red Bull boss was hit with the bombshell allegations, fears the drama will drag on for years, a source has claimed. But Geri, 51, is understood to be standing by her husband. She has told pals: “Christian has done nothing wrong.” Horner has overseen a huge period of success for the racing team – winning multiple F1 championships with Sebastian Vettel and Verstappen. Red Bull has won seven Formula One world drivers’ championships and six world ­constructors’ titles under Horner's leadership. Last season, the team won 21 of the 22 races on the global F1 tour, and Verstappen, 26, won the drivers’ crown. Horner was awarded a CBE for services to motorsport in the 2024 New Year’s Honours List.

9 Horner pictured talking to one of the jockeys at the event Credit: Splash

9 The Red Bull chief watched the races as a probe into his alleged behaviour continues Credit: Splash

9 Horner is being investigated by Red Bull Credit: Getty

9 Geri and Horner married in May 2015 Credit: AFP