MAURA Higgins stole the show and absolutely glistened in a stunning glitterball-inspired dress.

The 33-year-old model - who first found fame on Love Island - had all eyes on her as she attended Oh Polly's latest fashion show in London on Saturday.

7 Maura stole the show in a stunning glittery dress Credit: Splash

7 The star's enviable figure took centre stage in the Oh Polly audience Credit: Splash

With her curly hair swept up into a messy bun and sporting a sun-kissed glow of a tan, Maura beams as she posed in the bodycon gown.

Dressed head-to-toe in silver, Maura - who has now found love with Chris Hemsworth's stuntman, Bobby Holland Hanton, looked absolutely gorgeous as the dress hugged her enviable figure.

Her appearance at the fashion show comes after Maura revealed she had cut contact with almost everyone from Love Island - with only a handful of exceptions.

Back in November, Maura admitted at the Beauty awards: "Molly [Mae Hague] and Tommy [Fury] for sure, I speak to Francesca Allen a bit. Other than that, that's probably it."

She also commented on how she had no intention of ever returning to the villa, noting: "I think my contestant days are definitely done, no more dating shows for me."

Just weeks later the Love Island All Stars season was confirmed - with her ex, Chris Taylor among the line-up.

Callum & Molly have HUGE cash offers on table & will be the real winners of Love Island All Stars

Another of her exes, Curtis Pritchard, had also returned to the show for international spin-off Love Island Games last year.

At least she had the opportunity to catch up with other former islanders - albeit not from her season - at the Oh Polly Show.

Danica Taylor, who appeared on the 2022 series, also made an appearance in a lingerie-inspired off-white lace dress, and Clarisse Juliette, who spent time in the villa in 2021, dazzled in an eye-popping see-through black number.

7 Maura has lost contact with almost all of her Love Island co-stars Credit: Splash

7 Danica Taylor also made an appearance at the fashion show Credit: Splash

7 Clarisse turned heads at the event Credit: Splash

7 The bodycon dress showed off every curve in Maura's body Credit: Splash