A task force is examining the game and is set to submit its findings later in the year, with rule changes on the cards

MARK HIS WORDS Fermanagh boss Kieran Donnelly calls for controversial GAA rule to be SCRAPPED ‘to allow the game to keep improving’

FERMANAGH boss Kieran Donnelly has called for the mark to be scrapped in Gaelic football — and then for the game to be left alone.

The former Erne hitman is in his third season in charge of his native county and the state of the sport is a hot topic two rounds into the National League.

2 Fermanagh manager Kieran Donnelly has called for the mark to be scrapped

2 The mark was first introduced in 2017, and was followed by an attacking version in 2020

Donnelly said: “It’s in a really good place and the only negative side of football is the rules. I would very much be in favour of ‘leave our game alone’.”

However, the Brookeborough man believes the mark must go.

The rule was introduced in 2017. Players who caught kickouts cleanly beyond the 45-metre line could ‘call a mark’ by opting for a free or play on.

The advanced mark followed in 2020, which awards players a free shot at goal if they catch the ball cleanly inside the opposition 45 from passes that travel further than 20 metres.

A task force is examining the game and is set to submit its findings later in the year, with rule changes on the cards.

But Donnelly wants to bin the mark.

The former Scotstown and Cavan Gaels boss told SunSport: “In no other sport do you decide the decision-making of a player by a rule. The mark has to go to allow the game to keep stepping on and improving. We just have to be careful of not tweaking it with rules that don’t allow players to express themselves.

“Teams know how to set up and they study each other so well, so it’s only natural that teams can nullify each other and cancel each other out.

“But there’s a lot of games where skill levels will come to the fore and I don’t think players have ever been as smart in possession or as talented.”

Donnelly’s men are in a good place. Promoted from Division 3 last year and many people’s favourites for an immediate return, they have started brightly, drawing with Meath before seeing off Kildare.

The Ernesiders were rocked last November when star forward Seán Quigley and experienced duo Conall and Ryan Jones left the squad but newer faces have stepped up and filled the void.

Playmaker Ultan Kelm — whose planned move to AFL outfit Fremantle Dockers in 2021 was scuppered by a hip injury — is a lethal forward with pace and power.

Last year’s Fermanagh Under-20 captain Ronan McCaffrey, 20, helped UUJ to Sigerson Cup glory on Wednesday night.

And skipper Declan McCusker is leading by example at the age of 33.

Donnelly said: “We have lost experience but there’s a natural evolution with younger players looking to push on. It gave them a chance and they have taken it with both hands.

“Our squad depth has coped, which is probably the most pleasing aspect.

“We knew Division 2 was going to be a massive step up, so we thought it was important for confidence to start well.

“We’ve trained extremely hard to get ready and the performances have been just rewards for how the lads have trained.

“The Meath game was massive because we felt they were coming in on a high after last year and to get a point in Navan to settle us in was massive.

“Then getting back to winning ways at Brewster Park was important for us and we were happy with how we controlled the ball at vital stages and how we took our scores at key times.

“We have three massive games now against Donegal, Cork and Armagh so that will tell a tale but we are looking forward to those challenges.”

GRABBING HIS ATTENTION

Inter-county management brings its own challenges.

Donnelly is a teacher at Omagh CBS in Tyrone and preparing for today’s clash dominated his mid-term break — but he would not have it any other way.

He said: “It’s a job I enjoy and that’s the most important thing but it is all-consuming. The time required to manage at inter-county level now is massive because the game is evolving so much.

“Year three is about developing as a team and the departures have allowed these lads to have a natural step up.

“So it has been a good three years, they are a great squad and very receptive and we have a great backroom team as well.”

Donnelly will lock horns with his former UUJ team-mate Jim McGuinness at O’Donnell Park this afternoon.

The Tír Chonaill men are favourites to top Division 2 after seeing off Cork and Cavan but Donnelly relishes the challenge.

He said: “It’s our biggest task, I played Sigerson football with Jim and he’s proven himself as one of the top managers. But being underdogs suits us and we know the collective effort it takes to compete at this level.”

l KIERAN DONNELLY was speaking as Tracey Concrete celebrates 35 years of sponsorship of Fermanagh GAA, the longest-running deal in inter-county football.