HEARTBREAKING footage has revealed the search for a missing two-year-old boy who fell into a river while out with his family.

A major search operation was launched after the toddler ended up in Leicestershire's River Soar shortly before 5pm on Sunday.

15 A two-year-old boy is missing after falling into the River Soar in Leicester Credit: PA

15 Specialist crews are scouring the area this morning Credit: PA

15 Police are searching the surrounding area Credit: PA

15 A large police presence was spotted this morning Credit: SWNS

15 A number of teams were out in boats in the early hours Credit: PA

15 The boy is said to have fallen in the river yesterday just before 5pm Credit: PA

15 Cops are continuing the hunt to try and find him today Credit: SWNS

15 The public have been urged to not try and help Credit: BPM

15 Cops have cordoned off the area Credit: BPM

15

The tot's loved ones were said to have leapt into the waterway to try to rescue him, but were unable to.

Water rescue teams and emergency services then raced to the river after getting frantic calls.

A man was also taken to hospital after the horror incident as a "precautionary measure".

Police suspended the search last night and but resumed work first thing today.

The search operation is now continuing with “additional specialist teams”, the force said.

Extra police and emergency resources are being added in the hunt for the missing toddler.

A Leicestershire Police spokesperson said: "The operation continued throughout the night and additional resources will be going out to the scene this morning.

"The fire service came away at half past nine last night but police officers remained in the vicinity and were monitoring any information coming in and resources were ready to go out and respond if needed.

"There are rising water levels in the area, and flooding, and we're going to be bringing in additional resources today to assist with that."

The child’s family are being supported by specialist officers.

An Environment Agency flood alert is currently in place for the River Soar, "as a result of persistent heavy rainfall".

Police have also warned people do not go near the scene "due to rising water levels and safety risks".

Local Alison Clay said she had been walking her dog when she noticed emergency services swarming the river.

She told BBC: "A helicopter was flying around after 5pm and lots of emergency vehicles soon came.

"There's a drone in the sky still now. I only know what I've read on Facebook but it sounds terrible."

Another resident said they'd been stopped from going down near the river last night, adding: "The parents must be absolutely beside themselves."

Leicestershire Police initially said the boy was three, but have since confirmed he was two.

The force said at 10.30pm: "Earlier this evening officers were called to the River Soar in Leicester after reports of a child falling into the water.

"The child, a two-year-old boy, was with family when he fell into the river, sadly despite the best efforts of those at the scene at the time the child was not located.

"Emergency services attended the scene just after 5pm and a search and rescue operation began in Aylestone Meadows, close to Marsden Lane.

"A man was taken to hospital as a precautionary measure.

"The operation is ongoing and will continue with additional specialist teams in the morning."

Footage captured yesterday evening showed police had taped off Braunstone Lane East, while a helicopter could also be seen flying overhead.

Fire crews could also be seen nearby.

Police added: "The child’s family are being supported by specialist officers and our thoughts are with them at this extremely difficult time.

"We have had a number of offers of support to assist with the search and would kindly ask that people do not attend the scene due to rising water levels and safety risks.

"If anyone has any information or comes across anything that may assist officers, they are asked to contact us immediately.

"Specialist teams are on standby to respond to any information received.

"If you need to get in touch, please contact 999 quoting incident 476:180224."

15 A search operation is underway this morning Credit: BPM

15 Rising water levels on the River Soar near Aylestone Meadows today Credit: BPM

15 A major search operation was launched at the River Soar yesterday Credit: Leicestermedia

15 A two-year-old boy was said to have fallen into the river before 5pm Credit: Leicestermedia

15 Rescue teams were still scouring the area around 8pm Credit: Leicestermedia