WHETHER you're just starting your library or looking for a new pastime, Nintendo makes sure you're never stuck for something to play.

The Switch console has tons of free games available in the Nintendo eShop - but here's four you can play today that can be shared with friends.

2 Capcom Arcade 2nd Stadium, released in 2022, revisits the golden age of arcade games Credit: Nintendo

2 Tetris 99 is a battle royale take on of the most famous game classics of all time Credit: Nintendo

Warframe

Warframe, released in 2018, is entirely free to play with up to three friends.

The game lets users choose one of 30 so-called warframes to fight with in open-world combat, where they can also assemble their own arsenal of weapons.

Capcom Arcade 2nd Stadium

Capcom Arcade 2nd Stadium is a "superior collection" of games in comparison with the first game in the series, according to a review from Play Magazine.

The title, released in 2022, revisits the golden age of arcade games.

"A superior collection to the first Arcade Stadium, this is an excellent way to revisit your youth and/or discover quality games that you never knew existed," Play Magazine wrote in a review on Metacritic.

Capcom Arcade 2nd Stadium can be played with up to two players in co-op mode.

Sky: Children of the Light

From the award-winning creators behind Journey - 2013's Game of The Year - comes Sky: Children of the Light.

The game lets players team up and socialise with others to adventure in ever-expanding world.

With each update, the developers grow and shape the map with new attractions, including seasonal events and the expansion of realms.

One player review on Metacritic said: "This is a legendary game. Cool graphics? Yes. Incredible music? Yup. Replayabililty? Sure!

"This game has it all."

Tetris 99

Tetris 99 is a battle royale take on of the most famous game classics of all time.

It's got the Tetris you know and love, except you play as one of 99 players where only one can win.

The DLC adds four offline modes, including Two Player Share Battle, where a pair of players share Joy-Con and play the same game in local co-op.

This game usually costs money, but is currently free for members of the Nintendo Switch Online membership.

Nintendo has more information on its memberships here.