And we take a look at a perfume that has a great scent but doesn't have a hefty price tag attached to it

SUN SAVERS Seven ways to cut the cost of a cuppa even further as price of tea & milk falls

BAGGING a saving just got simpler after a recent fall in the price of tea and milk.

Cheaper cuppas are sure to give the nation a lift.

7 Good news if you love a cuppa, as the price of tea and milk has gone down — but you can cut the costs even further Credit: Getty

And here are some tips for cutting the cost even further.

COMMUNI-TEA: Fancy a free brew and a chat? Hungry Horse pubs will be hosting Communi-tea Cuppas events at least once a month and each guest will get two free cups of Yorkshire Tea.

It’s part of a commitment to combat loneliness in 2024 and a great way to meet people.

GO GREEN: Instead of tea bags, invest in a reusable tea infuser such as the Ikea Idealisk one for £1. Fill it with loose leaf tea, steep and enjoy.

GO BIG: Purchasing tea in bulk is a savvy way to save money in the long run.

Look for retailers or online stores that offer discounts for buying larger quantities.

By stocking up on your favourite varieties you will not only enjoy savings per cup, but ensure you never run out when the craving strikes.

TEA-RRIFIC IDEA: Sign up to become a free MyWaitrose member at waitrose.com, then pop into the supermarket with your reusable cup, scan your membership card and get your free cuppa.

BOILING POINT: Only boil the water you will need for your brew.

Or a thermal flask can keep leftover water hot for future cups, saving energy as you won’t have to stick the kettle on again.

BAG A BARGAIN: Don’t let leftover tea leaves go to waste. Instead, consider keeping your used bag for a second infusion.

Many varieties, particularly loose leaf teas, can be steeped multiple times without going bland.

Just let your second cuppa brew for slightly longer to extract the remaining flavour.

BREW-TIFUL TASTE: Rather than spending on several flavoured blends, use ingredients you already have at home.

Add a splash of lemon juice, a drizzle of honey or even a sprinkle of cinnamon to black tea for a fresh take on your usual cuppa.

All prices on page correct at time of going to press. Deals and offers subject to availability.

Shopper reveals the ‘best time’ to hit Waitrose for yellow sticker bargains, as she bags strawberries and milk for 69p

Deal of the day

7 Save £24 on a Toshiba WV2353 32” HD Ready Smart TV at ao.com

CATCH up on all your fave shows on the Toshiba WV2353 32” HD Ready Smart TV, RRP £169, currently £145 at ao.com.

SAVE: £24

Cheap treat

7 Grab a fish supper with a pack of Young Scampi for £2.75 with a Tesco Clubcard

ENJOY a fish supper with a pack of Young’s Scampi, usually £4, now £2.75 when you use a Tesco Clubcard.

SAVE: £1.25

What's new? GIVE your garden a Love Island makeover at The Range. New patio furniture on offer includes this Salisbury daybed – usually £549.99, now £499.99, saving £50.

Top swap

7 You could get this Chloe raffia basket bag for £510

7 Or get a basket bag in a similar style at M&S for £35

PLAN for your holidays now – the Chloe raffia basket bag is £510 at Net-a-porter.com, but get a similar style at M&S for £35.

SAVE: £475

Little helper WANT to smell sweet without the hefty price tag? The new layering fragrances by Claire’s launches in store this week. Scents include Lait de la Fraise, Pistache Cerise and Sorbet Vanille for £16 each.

Shop & save

7 Save £50 on this Arla velvet sofa bed at Homebase

SLEEP easy on the Arla velvet sofa bed, reduced from £250 to £200 at Homebase right now.

SAVE: £50

Hot right now PLAY on with a new Playstation 5, plus four free games, for £509 at currys.co.uk. Plus trade in your old Xbox or PS to save up to £95.

PLAY NOW TO WIN £200

7 Join thousands of readers taking part in The Sun Raffle

JOIN thousands of readers taking part in The Sun Raffle.

Every month we’re giving away £100 to 250 lucky readers - whether you’re saving up or just in need of some extra cash, The Sun could have you covered.

Every Sun Savers code entered equals one Raffle ticket.

The more codes you enter, the more tickets you'll earn and the more chance you will have of winning!