THIS is the terrifying moment a man cheats death after a flipped car lands just INCHES from his head.

A video has caught the incredible moment the man was almost crushed by a flipping car outside a Birmingham pub.

4 The red Volkswagen Golf reverses into a parked car and bounces off the motor Credit: SWNS

4 The car then flips, but only barely misses a man who dived out of the way to miss the reversing motor Credit: SWNS

The fracas started after a fight broke out outside The Cock pub in Bartley Green just after midnight Saturday.

The clip shows punters kicking a red Volkswagen Golf, before the car reverses about 20 meres into a parked car.

It then bounces off the car and lands up on its two right side wheels.

A man standing nearby trips over as he tries to dive out of the way, but as the Golf flips over, he goes underneath the motor.

Luckily, the man's head is next to the part of the bonnet which begins to angle in towards the front and he is just able to miss being crushed.

A woman with a bottle and a cigarette in one hand then runs over to make sure he is safe.

A force spokesman told The Telegraph that officers attended the scene and arrested a woman on suspicion of drink-driving.

The spokesman said: “We’re investigating a disorder in Jiggins Lane, Bartley Green, which happened just after midnight on Saturday.

“We understand during the incident a car landed on its roof after colliding with another vehicle.

“Two women were taken to hospital with injuries which are not believed to be life-changing. No one else has reported any injuries to us.

“Officers attended and arrested a woman on suspicion of drink-driving and she has since been bailed as investigations continue.

“CCTV is being reviewed and door-to-door enquiries are being carried out as we work to establish what happened.”

Another drink driving clip shows a Swedish mum flip her vehicle near Kintessack in Moray.

Johanna Jeppsson claimed she crashed her car while drink-driving because of the stress of Brexit.

How many units can you drink and drive in the UK? The drink drive limit in the UK is measured in milligrams rather than units. The limit is 80 milligrams in every 100 millilitres. Body mass, gender and how quickly your body absorbs alcohol are major factors on how each individual is impacted by drinking. Generally speaking, two pints of beer or two small glasses of wine is enough to put you over the legal limit. The stronger your drink the longer it takes to leave your system so a large glass of wine (250ml) could be in your blood for four hours after. If you treat yourself to a bottle of wine, you shouldn't drive until 1pm the next day to be safe.

4 The video clip recorded shows people kicking and punching the car Credit: SWNS