SHOCKING footage appears to show Alexei Navalny's body being smuggled out of prison overnight as authorities refuse to release it.

The fierce Putin critic, 47, died on Friday amid claims he was "murdered" by the Russian tyrant.

7 Footage shows a van - thought to be carrying Navalny's body - travelling during the night Credit: East2West

7 The motorcade includes police patrol cars Credit: East2West

7 The 47-year-old died on Friday, according to Russian authorities Credit: Reuters

7

A clip has now emerged showing a van - understood to be carrying his bruised body - in a convoy of prison vehicles and two police patrol cars in the cloak of nighttime.

One car was unmarked, possibly an FSB security service escort.

The 35-mile midnight dash in -30C temperatures started the day Navalny is reported to have died from his Arctic prison and continued early on Saturday.

It came just hours before Navalny's mother Lyudmila, 69, and lawyer arrived at the hellhole jail in an attempt to collect his body.

The Soviet-designed Federal Penitentiary Service van believed to be carrying Navalny is nicknamed a ‘Buhan ka’ - or bread loaf.

After leaving the jail, the motorcade went to Labytnangi before crossing the frozen Ob, the world’s seventh longest river, to Salekhard, according to independent news outlet Mediazona.

On Saturday morning, it was feared Navalny's body had gone missing when it was not at the morgue his mother was sent to by prison staff.

It was later revealed to be at a different morgue, closely guarded by police - sparking rumours of a cover-up.

And a paramedic who saw his body said it was covered in bruises and had consistent marks that could show he was "murdered" after it was suggested he suffered a seizure in jail.

The paramedic said: "Such damage occurs from convulsions.

Jerome Starkey discusses Alexei Navalny's 'shocking' death and what it means for the political future of Russia

“The person is convulsing, they are trying to restrain him, but the convulsions can be very strong, and that’s why bruises appear.”

There were also signs that jail medics had tried to resuscitate Navalny, because there were signs of “chest compressions”.

Navalny's mother and lawyers have been barred from the morgue after the Kremlin quickly gave the official cause of death as "sudden death syndrome"

No official autopsy has been performed.

Navalny's spokeswoman Kira Yarmysh said "Early in the morning, Alexei’s mother and lawyers arrived at the morgue.

"They are not allowed inside.

"One of the lawyers was literally pushed out. When asked whether Alexei’s body was there, the employees did not answer."

The family has now been told checks are still underway to establish the cause of death, even though they had said he died of a “blood clot” or “sudden death syndrome”.

The time given for Navalny's death - 2.17pm local time on Friday - has also been called into question.

Evidence from an inmate suggests he died during the previous night.

Timeline around Navalny's death: A timeline published by Gulagu.net, a human rights group, revealed: February 14: Several officers from the FSB, the Russian intelligence service, are said to have paid a visit to “Polar Wolf” prison — and proceeded to disconnect and dismantle some of the security cameras and listening devices there. February 16, 2.17pm local time: Navalny, 47, was officially reported to have died. February 16, 2.19pm: The prison service put out what appeared to be a prepared press release. It read: “On February 16, 2024, in correctional colony No. 3, convict Navalny A.A. felt unwell after a walk, almost immediately losing consciousness." February 16, 2.23pm: A state-controlled channel on the Telegram messaging site claimed the cause of death was a blood clot, or thrombosis. February 16, 2.30pm: Dmitry Peskov, the Kremlin's spokesman, fronted the media about Navalny's death. February 16: US President Joe Biden blasted: "Make no mistake, Putin is responsible for Navalny's death. Even in prison he was a powerful voice for the truth." February 16: Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy said: "Obviously, Putin killed him." February 17: Navalny's mum Lyudmila Navalnaya, 69, said to be told she couldn't see her son until an “examination” was completed. February 17: Russian authorities claim the dad died of "sudden death syndrome".

One inmate told Novaya Gazeta Europe they heard "mysterious" commotion the night before Navalny was reported dead.

He said: "It all started when they really sped up our evening search, this usually happens on holidays when the guards are in a hurry to go and celebrate, but [that day] wasn't a holiday.

"Then they locked us up, forbade any movement between barracks, and tightened security.

"We heard cars drive on to the prison grounds late at night but couldn't see through our cell windows what they were."

The prisoner said guards also did an in-depth search of cells on Friday morning and seized a number of items.

Prison officials at the "Polar Wolf" Colony where Navalny was locked up on bogus charges claimed that he died after collapsing on a walk.

Navalny, Putin's leading domestic critic in Russia, had bravely challenged the tyrant's rule and his horrific war in Ukraine.

He was locked away on trumped-up charges after a sham trial and has been vocal about his fears of assassination.

The activist was first picked up by Vlad's brutal police in 2021 after returning to Russia following an assassination attempt.

In total he spent 308 days banged up - and there were reports that a sadistic Putin even demanded to see live footage of the 47-year-old undergoing punishment and being humiliated by guards.

Navalny also went missing from a hellish Russian jail last year - and his supporters warned at the time that he could be executed.

He was later found in one of the toughest prisons in the country in Siberia - known as "the Polar Wolf" colony.

Putin's opponents die in mysterious circumstances By Nick Parker TRAGIC Navalny is the latest in a long line of Putin opponents and rivals to die in mysterious circumstances. His death came just six months after the Russian tyrant's last public challenger - Wagner boss Yevgeny Prigozhin - died in a fireball jet smash believed to have been caused by a bomb. Warlord Prigozhin's days were numbered after he launched a failed coup in which his troops turned on Moscow - and Putin is thought to have directly ordered the air "accident". Scores of political opponents, oligarchs and insubordinate business chiefs have met similar suspicious fates in recent years as paranoid Putin shored up his power base. They include politician Boris Nemtsov, killed with six shots in the back and head in February 2015 on a Moscow bridge; top Russian journalist and Putin critic Anna Politkovskaya who was shot dead in an elevator in June 2014 and Alexander Litvinenko who died in agony in London after being poisoned with radioactive polonium tea in 2006. Putin agents also attempted to kill Russian turncoat Sergei Skripal with Novichok after he fell foul of the Kremlin regime and fled to Salisbury, Wilts.

7 Navalny's mother, Lyudmila Navalnaya at the IK-3 penal colony

7 Cities across the world have made up makeshift memorial sites for the Kremlin critic including Amsterdam (pictured), Tokyo, London, Madrid, California, Berlin and Lisbon