THE Bafta leading ladies brought the glamour — but it was screen star Michael J. Fox who brought the audience to their feet for a standing ovation.

The Back To The Future actor bravely stood from his wheelchair and received rapturous applause as he gave a moving speech about the power of cinema.

9 Michael J. Fox presented the Best Film gong at the Baftas Credit: Getty

9 Fans thought it was the standout moment of the night Credit: Getty

9 The star arrived on stage to rapturous applause Credit: BBC

9 Fox previously said he finds it 'frustrating and isolating' to be in a wheelchair Credit: BBC

It provoked cheers at London’s Royal Festival Hall, where he presented the Best Film gong to Oppenheimer.

Fox, 62, has fought Parkinson’s disease since 1991 and previously said he finds it “frustrating and isolating” to be confined to a wheelchair.

Speaking on stage, he said: “Five films are nominated in this category tonight and all five have something in common — they’re the best at what we do.

“There’s a reason why they say movies are magic — because movies can change your day.

“They can change your outlook and sometimes can change your life.”

One fan wrote on X/Twitter: “Ok #BAFTA, you got me, Michael J. Fox was the star of the night.”

Earlier, his film Still: A Michael J. Fox Movie, released last May, had lost out in the Documentary category.

The standout moment followed an underwhelming ceremony hosted by David Tennant.

The former Doctor Who actor, 52, delivered a skit about a dog called Bark Gruffalo to open the ceremony, which was scoffed at by viewers.

Referencing the frosty reception as he ended his monologue, David said: “Even Bark Gruffalo is glazing over.”

9

9 Michael poses with football legend David Beckham Credit: Getty

9 The star with David backstage Credit: Getty

9 Michael poses with Ted Lasso star Hannah Waddingham backstage Credit: Getty

9 Michael with wife Tracy Pollan at the star-studded event Credit: Getty

What is Parkinson's disease? PARKINSON'S is a progressive neurological condition. This means that it causes problems in the brain and gets worse over time. People with Parkinson's don't have enough of the chemical dopamine in their brain because some of the nerve cells that make it have stopped working. Around 145,000 people live with Parkinson’s in the UK. It's the fastest growing neurological condition in the world. Symptoms start to appear when the brain can’t make enough dopamine to control movement properly. This usually happens around the age of 50, but some people might see the first signs in their 40s. There are over 40 symptoms, but the three main ones are: A tremor (shaking)

Slowness of movement

Rigidity (muscle stiffness) There are several different treatments, therapies and support available to help manage the condition. Source: Parkinson's UK