LOVE Island fans have worked out the "real reason" why Luis Morrison voted for Molly Smith and Tom Clare to be dumped from the villa.

The Islanders gathered round the firepit and were told one couple would be leaving immediately after a vote by their co-stars last night.

4 Love Island fans have worked out why Luis chose to dump Molly and Tom Credit: Eroteme

4 Some viewers think Luis wanted to cause chaos for an extra '15 mins of fame' Credit: ITV

4 Luis told Molly and Tom that their relationship was 'one-sided' Credit: Eroteme

Callum & Molly have HUGE cash offers on table & will be the real winners of Love Island All Stars

They had been tasked with returning to the All Stars villa to dump two stars from the villa.

Tempers rose when returning Islander Luis voted for Molly and Tom.

He accused their relationship of being "one-sided" - insinuating there was unfinished business between Molly and her ex Callum Jones.

Tom was left confused and asked Luis to explain what he meant.

Luism 29, said that he had based his decision on what was being show on the outside.

But some fans are sceptical of his reasons and think he's trying to cause chaos for an extra "15 mins of fame".

One wrote: "YES LUIS. GET YOUR 15 MIN OF FAME THE RIGHT WAY."

A second posted: "NOT LUIS HINTING AT A CONNECTION BETWEEN MOLLY AND CAL."

A third commented: "Luis brought the smoke Molly and Callum stans rise."

Another added: "Luis: 'Molly and Tom your relationship is one sided'

"Tom: 'what are you seeing'. Luis: 'that it’s one sided'."

Luis' vote made little difference as the majority of the ex-Islanders had voted for Arabella Chi and Adam Maxted to leave.

Arabella grew frustrated as she and Adam were voted for because they hadn't been together as long.

She ranted: "I don't have anything to say anymore. It's just s***.".

The result of the vote landed on Joe Garratt after a tie between Arabella and Adam and Georgia Harrison and Anton Danyluk.

He chose to dump Arabella and Adam.

The disappointed star said: "I expected it."

She later broke down in tears as she said goodbye to the girls who described her as "their rock" and "like a big sister".

Speaking to The Sun after being axed from the villa, model Arabella, said she found an “instant connection” following a tough start.

Arabella said: “At times I thought in the villa, how am I being as unlucky in love in here as outside?

“But when Adam walked through the door finally my luck changed.

“I am now lucky in love!”

She added: “Of course I am sad not to make the final.

“It’s bittersweet as I’ve had such a journey in there. I’ve had ups and downs but I have definitely had a full Love Island experience.

“I was instantly attracted to Adam, we couldn't stop staring at each other.

“When he walked in I couldn't see who it was, I just heard an Irish accent.

“We went to the mini firepit and from that moment onwards we have been building on our instant connection ever since.

“When Adam picked me up in his gladiator outfit, swung me over his shoulder and laid me down on the floor my heart nearly came out of my chest!”