Barbie is coming to the English curriculum among a series of new additions for Leaving Cert 2026

KEN BELIEVE IT Thousands of Irish students set to study blockbuster movie Barbie as it’s added to Leaving Cert curriculum

LEAVING Cert students will soon be saying: Come on Barbie, let’s go study!

We can reveal the Margot Robbie blockbuster is among a series of new novels, films, poetry and plays added to next year’s English curriculum.

2 Barbie is set to be added to next year's English curriculum for the Leaving Cert Credit: Alamy

2 It will give pupils a chance to examine the social context and relationships between the characters Credit: Alamy

Experts at the National Council for ­Curriculum

and Assessment believes it will give pupils a chance to examine the movie’s social context and the relationships between the characters.

The Greta Gerwig flick, which also stars Ryan Gosling and America Ferrera, sees Barbie enter the real world in search of answers after having an existential crisis.

The fantasy comedy, the first live-action flick about the famous Mattel doll, is considered a commentary on feminism and patriarchy.

Barbie became the highest-grossing film ever at the Irish box office last year after ­taking home almost €10million in ticket sales — beating the previous record holder, Avatar.

The Department of Education has signed off on the new additions, which also include Colin Farrell's film The Banshees of Inisherin.

A series of new novels have been added, including Lessons in ­Chemistry by Bonnie Garmus, which has been developed into a TV series starring Brie Larson.

A graphic novel has also been added to the approved learning list.

The Best We Could Do by Thi Bui is a comic book about a family’s journey from ­war-torn Vietnam.

And a play version of Bram Stoker’s classic novel Dracula has also been given the OK.

The new selections will be available for teens entering fifth year this September and will be on the Leaving Cert exam in June 2026.

PLANS SHELVED OVER AI FEARS

Last year, plans for teachers to assess the Leaving Certificate were shelved over fears students would use artificial intelligence in their projects, it was confirmed.

Minister for Education Norma Foley said she made the decision following discussions with all stakeholders over the past two years.

She said: “I am particularly conscious of the more recent accelerated evolution and growth in generative AI, and I understand there is a need to explore the opportunities afforded by these developments in an educational context, as well as the challenges they might present.

“With that in mind, I have asked the State Examinations Commission that further research would be commissioned on the potential role and impact of generative artificial intelligence in teacher-based assessment in particular.

“While this work is ongoing, I have decided to progress additional and practical components that will be externally assessed by the SEC.

“I look forward to working collaboratively with our partners across the education sector to achieve our shared vision of excellence and equity, and enriching our students’ experience, in line with Senior Cycle Redevelopment.”