VOGUE Williams sent pulses racing at the Bafta TV Awards in an "incredible" silver gown.

The 77th Bafta TV Awards returned today and stars of the small screen gathered at London's Royal Festival Hall.

2 Vogue looked incredible at the Bafta TV Awards today Credit: Getty Images - Getty

2 Vogue's fans all shared their love for her outfit Credit: Social Media Collect

The Howth native showed off her incredible figure on the red carpet in a fabulous silver sparkly gown.

The stunning maxi dress was covered in sequins and had chic pink and blue feathers on the sleeves.

Vogue paired the eye-catching frock with beautiful silver heels.

To complete the look, she also wore some silver jewellery, had her hair slicked back and kept her makeup mainly simple with a nude lip.

Vogue's dress came from designer brand Self Portrait and it is on the website for €815.

She captioned her post: "BAFTAs ready… dream job hosting for @ladbible with @alforancomedy.

"Off to stare down loads of A listers can’t wait!

"Glam squad on fire today…

"Styling @corinagaffey. Hair @hadleyyatessalon. Make up @abkmakeup. Shoes @sophiawebster. Dress @mrselfportrait. Nails @peaccibrand. Jewels @annoushkajewellery."

Vogue's fans and friends all raced to the comment section to share their love for her look.

Emma said: "Absolutely stunning dress and shoes."

Marc commented: "Pure elegance."

Jess wrote: "Obsessed."

Edwina gushed: "You look incredible Vogue, those shoes."

Another added: "Utterly divine."

STRANGE SQUABBLE

Vogue was recently left in stitches as she revealed the bizarre fight she had with her hubby Spencer Matthews.

The Howth native and the Made In Chelsea star went to the gym together to do a workout recently and it ended in disaster.

Vogue opened up on the random argument on her most recent episode of her podcast with Joanne McNally, My Therapist Ghosted Me.

The mum-of-three explained: "Obviously I don't train like him [Spencer]. I don't see his trainer very often and I really like him as a person so then I spent that time chatting a lot through the training session.

"So Spenny was like - he was quite happy in the morning when we left and then as the morning progressed in the training session, he started going up a spice level.

"I kind of rate him like that, like you'd get in a Thai food menu. So I'm like, 'Oh he's chilli one'.

"He was three chillis by the end of it because he got so p***ed off at me."

The competitive pair both work closely with Marks & Spencer to promote their clothing brand.

Vogue said: "We actually ended up having a big fight. We were fighting about who's Marks and Spencer content did better."