SHOPPERS are raving as Marks and Spencer has started selling more than 140 products from two sportswear retail giants.

The high street favourite has announced it's welcoming the huge range of active wear to its online store.

3 M&S will add the two sportswear giants to their collection online Credit: Alamy

3 At least 140 lines will be available to shop Credit: M&S

3 The brands a favourites for gym-goers Credit: M&S

Hundreds of new lines will be available to shop as part of the M&S The Sports Edit collection.

The site, which allows millions of customers to order from each year, is already home to five major sporting brands.

Adidas, Columbia, ASICS, weaty Betty and Girlfriend Collective can all be shopped on M&S.com.

But now, execs have announced the arrival of Puma and Reebok.

The range from both brands will include performance and lifestyle apparel and footwear, as well as clothing items.

Reebok will be available on M&S.com from February, with Puma available in March.

Nishi Mahajan, Director of Third-Party Brands at M&S, said: “Sportswear is an integral part of our wider Brands at M&S strategy as we continue to grow market share and brand credibility in the category.

"Our dedicated platform has been carefully curated to cater for every style, energy level and price point, complementing and completing the strength we have in our core Goodmove range.

"We’re growing at pace – and there is more to come this year.”

Nick Paulson-Ellis, Founder and CEO of The Sports Edit, added: “Our carefully curated edit of sportswear partners on The Sports Edit platform on M&S.com now includes five out of the top ten global sportswear brands, with more to follow later in the year – and we’re still only one year in."

‘Perfect for pear shapes’ shoppers rave about ‘flattering’ M&S jeans that look expensive and are perfect for spring

It comes just days after M&S announced one of its stores would be closing for good.

The home shop in Kingsditch Trading Estate in Tewkesbury Road, Cheltenham, will shut up shop in April.

Last year, M&S revealed that it would permanently shut ten stores and relocate more shops.

It's part of the retailer's plans to create more flagship M&S stores and food halls across the UK.