MEGHAN Markle’s former co-star has revealed there was a “foul” smell at her wedding to Prince Harry.

Suits star Rick Hoffman, who played Louis Litt on the show, opened up about attending the prestigious royal nuptials in 2018.

6 Rick Hoffman, who starred in Suits with Meghan Markle, revealed there was a 'foul smell' at her royal wedding which led to him pulling a face Credit: BBC

6 Meghan Markle is said to have requested £130 diffusers to help mask the 'musty' scent at St George's Chapel Credit: PA

Rick appeared on the Chicks in the Office podcast and revealed why he was caught on camera during the wedding pulling an “awful face”.

He explained: “As time goes on, I'm starting to smell something really terrible and foul, and I'm very sensitive when it comes to that so I start to try to do this.”

He then gestured covering his face, and added: "Because I have a coconut vanilla moisturiser, and I like to try to cut it.

“How can I help getting away from this goofy face?"

After he smelt the unpleasant aroma, he went over to his Suits cast friends, and added: “Because I don’t want them to think it’s me because I’m so particular when it comes to hygiene.

“So I’m like, ‘Do you guys smell that?’

“And they’re like, ‘No.’

“So now I’m like literally by myself and I’m just going, ‘Mother…’.

“And that’s what they got [on camera].”

Rick added that ironically it was former co-star Meghan, who played paralegal Rachel Zane, who knew he had a sensitivity to smells.

Behind the scenes at Harry and Meghan’s £32m wedding – from bride’s boozy breakfast to guests’ wild dance floor antics

He continued: “Guess who knew that the most in the cast that I had an issue with other people’s hygiene?

“Meghan! Always knew and would always laugh about how I was so sensitive.”

He added that his funny facial expressions caught on camera were also due to sitting next to Suits star Sarah Rafferty, who played Donna Paulsen, and trying to do “something ridiculous” to get a reaction from her but she told him to “cut it out”.

This follows Meghan reportedly wanting air fresheners to fix the "musty" smell at St George's Chapel before her wedding.

The Duchess of Sussex specifically asked for atomisers to fill the chapel before Royal Wedding guests arrived because she didn't "like its smell", a source claimed.

As time goes on, I'm starting to smell something really terrible and foul, and I'm very sensitive when it comes to that so I start to try to do this Rick Hoffman

Household staff were reportedly left astounded at her request because the chapel was The Queen's regular place of worship and even contained the Royal Vault.

A source told the Daily Mail: "Apparently Meghan didn't like the smell of the chapel, which as you would expect, is a little musty. It's not unpleasant at all though.

"Meghan wanted staff to go around with these atomisers, like spritzer guns, and spray the chapel with scent before anyone arrived.”

According to royal biographers Omid Scobie and Carolyn Durand in Finding Freedom, Meghan secured £130 Diptyque Baies diffusers for the big day.

They were said to be provided by the brand and approved by the palace, leaving the chapel smelling of roses, infused with fruity undertones of berries and currant leaves.

Meanwhile, Kate requested Jo Malone candles be sent to Westminster Abbey for her big day.

Everything we know about Meghan's time on Suits Meghan was an original member of the Suits cast when the show's pilot aired on June 23, 2011. She portrayed Rachel Zane in the hit legal drama, being first introduced as a paralegal in the series, having yet to pass her bar exam and become a lawyer. As the series goes on she grows close to associate Mike Ross, played by Patrick J Adams, and they tie the knot in the season 7 finale. She left the show following her seven-season stint after first becoming engaged to Prince Harry. In total, she was in 108 episodes from 2011 until 2018.

6 The Duke and Duchess of Sussex tied the knot in 2018 in Windsor Credit: AFP

6 Rick was among numerous Suits stars, including Patrick J Adams, who were invited to Meghan's wedding Credit: AP:Associated Press

6 Rick claims Meghan used to 'laugh' about his smell sensitivity Credit: Getty Images - Getty