Soap fans are in for a shock as character favourite spirals

GRIPPING PLOT Painkiller addiction is ‘Ireland’s hidden issue’, says Fair City star as he hails new ‘reflection’ of reality storyline

FAIR City star Enda Oates has hailed the show’s new storyline highlighting painkiller addiction, saying: “It’s Ireland’s hidden issue.”

The Glenroe star, 62, has been playing Pete ­Ferguson for over a decade on the show.

3 Fair City star Enda Oates has told how his characters storyline is connected to 'Ireland;s hidden issue' with addiction

3 Enda said it is a 'true reflection' of what happens when people look for a 'crutch to help' with pain

And after a slow-burning storyline that saw Pete suffer from long-term back pain, his character’s slowly become addicted to painkillers.

For Enda, it’s all a “reflection” of how this happens in real life.

He told The Irish Sun: “It’s a true reflection of what ­happens for some people where they look for a crutch to help with the pain. So I thought it was a really good trajectory to go on for Pete.

“His pain had become a bit of a joke in the script, ‘his back’s gone again’, but we know in reality these things do have consequences.”

For Enda, it was good to see an international problem portrayed on Irish screens.

He said: “It’s hugely prevalent, but we don’t talk about it much in this country.

“Obviously, internationally there’ve been recent documentaries on dependency on painkillers such as OxyContin, which had a documentary on it recently on Netflix.

“It’s nice we’re looking at it this side of the pond as well.”

He added: “I don’t know exactly where we’re going in terms of what ­happens to Pete, but I hope it has a positive effect by showing it.

“We’ve got some stuff coming up in the next couple of weeks where he hits rock bottom and realises that it is taking control of him.”

This is due to be a big storyline in the soap for Pete and reflects what is currently going on in Ireland.

Codeine has killed dozens of people here in recent years with thousands in the grip of debilitating addiction.

Statistics on Prime Time last year showed that sales of codeine-containing medicines reached 4.53million in 2021.

'CHARACTER FALLING APART'

Enda said: “When we do things on Fair City, every now and then when we pick up a subject that has a relevance to what’s going on in a lot of people’s lives, we do our best to do it right and I hope we have in this case.”

He also praised the writers for not rushing into the story — which mirrors the reality.

Enda and Pete have been in the soap since 2009.

Along the way, Enda has appeared in shows such as Striking Out and Resistance, as well as films such as God’s ­Creatures with Paul Mescal.

But Enda said he is ­“tremendously grateful” to play Pete, especially as he is “part of the main story, of his character falling apart through opioid addiction”.

He was also previously part of a big story line when he ended up at death’s door in hospital after collapsing with carbon monoxide poisoning.

FAIR City airs on Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday, RTE 1