Plus, the drink you didn't know was spiking your blood sugar

EARLY BIRD The 3 breakfast foods you should swerve if you have type 2 diabetes – and 3 safer swaps

THERE'S no better way to start the day than with a healthy, balanced breakfast.

This is just as much the case for millions of people who live with type 2 diabetes.

1 A bowl of sugary cereal doused in full fat milk might not be the best breakfast option if you have type 2 diabetes Credit: Alamy

Type 2 diabetes is a common condition that causes levels of sugar in the blood to become too high.

This can be due to your body not making enough of a hormone called insulin, or the insulin it does make not working properly - known as insulin resistance.

If you have the condition, what you eat can be really important for keeping your blood sugar levels in check, along with getting regular checkups and being active.

Chanda Pattni, a registered dietitian behind The London Diabetes Dietitian who helps people prevent and manage diabetes, said carbohydrate is the nutrient that has the greatest impact on blood glucose levels.

"An individualised approach, focusing on the quality and quantity of carbohydrate foods, is essential for managing diabetes effectively," she told Sun Health.

For Chanda, the quality of a meal with carbs comes down to it having a low glycaemic index and being high in fibre.

How much of a carbohydrate you consume - the portion size - will also have an impact on blood glucose levels.

The glycaemic index (GI) is a rating system for individual foods containing carbohydrates, showing how quickly a particular can affect your blood sugar.

Carbs that are broken down quickly by your body can cause a rapid spike in blood glucose - this means they have a high GI.

They include sugary foods like jelly babies and sugary drinks like fizzy pop.

But other carbs will be digested and absorbed at slower rates, causing a gradual rise in blood sugar over time.

Fibre can also be a helpful nutrient, as it acts as a physical barrier that slows down the absorption of carbohydrates, according to Diabetes UK.

And eating a meal that combines protein and healthy fats can lead to a slow rise in blood glucose levels too.

When it comes to breakfast, one size does not not fit all, as everyone will manage their diabetes differently - through diet, physical activity, medication and/or insulin.

But it's worth knowing which foods on your breakfast plate might raise your blood sugar levels.

Which foods could spike my blood sugar?

Jess Hillard, sports nutritionist at Warrior, told Sun Health there isn't necessarily a "worst" food people with type 2 diabetes can eat for brekkie, as it depends on your what insulin reading is at the time.

"However, if you're at risk of developing type 2, the worst thing would be a breakfast high in saturated fat or high in sugar," she said.

"We’d want to ensure a well-rounded, balanced breakfast.

"Big ones to avoid would be fry ups which are high in saturated fat as often fried in a lot of oils as well as additional fat in bacon, sausages etc.

"Likewise, sugary cereals also are not advisable if at risk."

Chanda listed three breakfast foods that could impact your blood sugar levels:

A large bowl of sugar-coated cereal with full fat milk - cereals made out of refined grains, containing chocolate or marshmallows have a higher GI and are low in fibre, while full fat milk has unhealthy fat Two slices of white toast with butter and jam - the white bread is a refined carb that's low in fibre and has a higher GI, as does the jam, while butter is an unhealthy fat Pastries - another food with a higher GI, containing sugar and unhealthy fats

If you tend to wash your breakfast down with a glass of orange juice, the dietitian suggested using extreme caution.

"Fruit juice can be extremely challenging due to its high GI and lack of dietary fibre, which can lead to rapid rises in blood glucose levels, very quickly after consumption," she said.

If you gulp down large amounts of the juice, it can cause a rapid spike in your blood sugar levels, Chanda warned.

You might want to be wary of fruit smoothies too, for the same reasons.

What breakfast foods should I opt for instead?

According to Jess, a meal that's high protein, high fibre will keep you satiated throughout the day.

She gave the example of porridge, topped with a chopped up half Warrior CRUNCH bar, with some berries and seeds.

"This provides protein, fibre, vitamins and minerals, as well as healthy fats," Jess said.

Chanda also recommended a small bowl of porridge as a healthy breakfast option for someone with type 2 diabetes, as it has a low GI and it's packed with fibre.

Top the steaming bowl with nuts like walnuts or almonds for a dose of fibre, protein and healthy fats.

Or you could sprinkle on some chia seeds or flax seeds. And if you're craving a sweet topping add one some fruit - try berries, apples or pears.

If you're more in the mood for savoury, Chanda advised you have a slice of multigrain toast with avocado and poached eggs, which combined will feed your body with fibre, healthy fats and protein.

A small bowl of Greek yogurt that's low fat and sugar with nuts, seeds and berries, is yet another good option.