PIRATES of the Caribbean star Kevin McNally has been arrested on suspicion of domestic violence.

The British actor, 67, was held shortly before he was due to attend the world’s largest Dr Who fan convention in Los Angeles.

5 From left: Orlando Bloom, Kevin McNally and Johnny Depp Credit: Disney

5 McNally is married to actress Phyllis Logan Credit: Rex

5 Phyllis, played housekeeper Mrs Hughes in Downton Abbey, pictured with Jim Carter Credit: Handout

McNally, who played Joshamee Gibbs — first mate to Johnny Depp’s Captain Jack Sparrow — across all five Pirates movies, was released on bail of £40,000 and is due in court next month.

He is married to Bafta-winning actress Phyllis Logan but police declined to give details of his alleged victim, citing confidentiality rules.

At his family home in Chiswick, West London yesterday, Phyllis denied knowing about his arrest.

McNally appeared in Downton Abbey with Scots-born Phyllis, who played housekeeper Mrs Hughes.

They had a son David in 1996 and married in 2011.

In 2021, he defended Pirates co-star Depp, 60, when he was accused of beating up his actress ex, Amber Heard.

He said: “I’ve never seen a hint of a dark side to him.

“I see a great humanitarian and a beautiful human being. I don’t see any impediment for him coming back and playing Jack Sparrow.”

McNally, arrested in the early hours of Friday, had been expected to appear at Dr Who fan convention Gallifrey One at a Marriott hotel in LA the next day.

Organisers announced on social media that he would not be appearing but told fans only that it was for personal reasons.

Incredible private island used in Pirates of the Caribbean films and James Bond goes on sale

McNally appeared in the BBC sci-fi favourite in 1984 and again in 2021.

LA police said the Bristol-born actor was held on suspicion of inflicting an injury that caused a traumatic condition on a victim who was his current or former spouse, cohabitant, or child’s parent.

His agent was asked to comment.

5 McNally appeared in all five Pirates movies Credit: Disney Enterprises, Inc

5 The British actor publicly supported Depp during his legal dispute with ex-wife Amber Heard Credit: Alamy