DUNNES Stores has unveiled the new additions to the knitwear range just in time for the upcoming spring season.

And the new knitwear is perfect for casual wear and work.

5 Dunnes Stores unveiled new knitwear additions to the range Credit: Social Media Collect

5 Gorgeous knitwear prices start from just €20 Credit: Social Media Collect

5 The Round Neck Cardigan is absolutely beautiful and is a perfect warm layer Credit: Social Media Collect

The retailer took to Instagram to announce the new additions that have landed on the knitwear range.

Captioning the post, they said: "Spring knits to know! Shop some of these gorgeous styles online now and keep your eyes peeled for the rest, coming soon."

The first item in the range was the gorgeous beige Round Neck Cardigan for just €25.

It is designed in a chunky cable knit design with ribbed trims and oversized buttons for contrast.

The cardigan is the perfect layer over dresses and tops to be warm and cosy during the miserable weather.

It is also available in a beautiful pale green colour.

Next up in the range is the stunning Button Rib Detail Cardigan for just €20.

It comes in a cotton-rich knit, boxy fit with a v-neck and three oversized buttons.

The cardigan can be paired with jeans and a white top, perfect for casual dinner or meeting up with the girls for coffee.

Describing the cardigan, Dunnes Stores said: "In a cotton-rich knit, this cardigan features a boxy fit, a v-neck, and three oversized buttons.

I tried pink tiered dress from Dunnes Stores - it’s perfect for Spring & people say it’s ‘gorgeous’

"A wardrobe classic, this will slot effortlessly into any woman's wardrobe."

It is also available in gorgeous ivory and light green colours.

SNEAK PEEK ON TWO GORGEOUS KNITWEAR

Dunnes Stores has also shown a sneak peek of two gorgeous knitwear that are set to launch very soon.

It is the half zip jumpers and comes in two designs, perfect for casual wear and work.

It can be easily paired with jeans and a handbag - making it a gorgeous outfit.

Available in the cable stripe pattern and green.

The price of these upcoming jumpers is unknown.

Many Dunnes Stores fashion fans rushed to the comments praising the store over "fabulous" new knitwear.

5 The white Button Rib Detail Cardigan is priced at €20 Credit: Social Media Collect