BBC News star Kate Silverton has opened up on her surprise new career after ditching fame.

The former BBC newsreader has ditched city living for a quiet life in the countryside with her family after opting to follow a brand new career path.

4 Kate Silverton has opened up about her new career Credit: Getty

4 the TV presenter has now re-trained as a child therapist Credit: BBC

Kate, 53, left the BBC in 2021 in order to embark on a totally new career as a child therapist.

It has seen her train in the role before landing a job working in primary schools supporting children with additional and complex needs.

Her new job is worlds away from working as a journalist and TV host but Kate has admitted that she is revelling in her new life.

Speaking to the Daily Mirror, she confessed that leaving the city behind for a new quiet life is exactly what she, her husband and their two children needed.

She said: “I absolutely loved living in London but I don’t need to be there any more. I’m someone that loves to travel and as a former Girl Guide, I’m probably happier living under canvas than I am with bricks and mortar. My husband is military, so he’s the same.”

As well as getting hands-on in the field, Kate has also begun to write a series of parenting and advice books on the topic based on all of the learning that she has accrued in her new career.

Although her surprising new career seems a million miles away from newsreading and journalism, Kate has insisted that it is much more similar than people would first think.

Kate said: “What I’m doing now does seem so far removed and yet it’s really similar in a way."

“In journalism and as a therapist you’re helping people tell their stories, to have a voice and be heard. And journalism got me over the line with my books, meeting the deadlines and everything.”

Kate first joined the BBC in the early 2000s and presented on the 24 hour rolling news channel as well as being a relief presenter on BBC Breakfast.

BBC star Kate SIlverton poses in bikini after brave post about 'overwhelming' IVF struggles

She later went on to join BBC News at One as one of the leading presenters alongside Sophie Raworth for over seven years.

Although she has since revealed she feels 'free' being released from the strict clutches of the BBCs many rules.

The star told the publication: “There’s enormous liberation in being able to be me, frankly.

“I think if you work in any corporation, particularly if you’re presenting and you’re front-facing at the BBC, you’re not quite you, you’re a persona reading the news.

“I’m still extremely careful, because I have a responsibility to my clients and to parents, so I’m still as contained.

"But I’ve spoken out on various issues to do with children’s mental health, and it’s liberating to be able to do that and to be responsible for myself rather than worrying about somebody else holding me to account.”

4 Kate was a face of BBC News throughout the 2000s and 2010s Credit: Getty