Whichever exercises you try to tone your arms — Pilates, planks, press-ups, pull-ups — after a certain age it’s almost impossible to tone those wobbly bits under your arms. Because upper arms contain fewer blood vessels, burning fat here is more difficult than elsewhere on the body. And when hormonal imbalances occur, it’s often here that fat is distributed. This means that even the fittest and healthiest of us will have to contend with bingo wings.

“One of my patients calls them ‘lollipops’,” says the aesthetic doctor Galyna Selezneva, describing the pockets of fat that collect around the armpits and shoulders. It’s an area that regularly bothers her patients. Luckily for them, she’s one of London’s most trusted pairs of hands when it comes to cryolipolysis, otherwise known as fat-freezing, her preferred strategy for dealing with upper-arm flab.

The method uses extreme cold to freeze and kill fat cells. Selezneva employs the vacuum nozzles on her Deleo Cristal Pro device to “suck” in pockets of fat for about 45 minutes and freeze them. Then she gives the area a swift massage, which breaks the frozen cells down so that they can be excreted. The procedure can be very painful and make the treated area tender for a few days. She says that about 30 per cent of fat cells in that area can be eradicated per session, of which at least two are advised.

• The new alternatives to Botox for younger-looking skin

• Would you try the new lunchtime lipo?

• The fasting guide: blast the belly fat, boost your brain, stay young

Having reduced the size of the “lollipops”, Selezneva often follows up with Sofwave, a skin-tightening machine that helps to tackle crepey or slack skin. It sends strong beams of ultrasound waves into the dermis, stimulating elastin production and boosting collagen, helping to make skin plumper and tighter. She says that the best results can be seen after a few months of treatments.

Advertisement

For those with excess fat in the area, another option is AirSculpt, a form of liposuction that is new to the UK (but has been tested for over ten years on more than 40,000 cases in the US, where it is approved by the FDA). Offered at the Elite Body Sculpture clinic on Harley Street, it is a less invasive solution than traditional liposuction, which requires full sedation. Through a tiny incision on a locally anaesthetised area, a cannula is inserted under the skin and gently sucks out fat without any of the aggressive back-and-forth movements used in liposuction, which can cause a lot of discomfort. Our tester said that the cannula moving under the skin felt “a little unusual”, but the anaesthetic kept the pain at bay. “In fact, it felt more like a warm massage,” she said. Afterwards, rest is advised for at least 48 hours and compression garments should be worn for a few weeks to improve the results. But because the fat is removed from your body, the results are permanent.

For those looking for a needle-free way to prep and polish arms, the U Beauty Signature Sculpt at the Hotel Café Royal’s spectacular subterranean spa is a relaxing but effective 60-minute treatment that uses the skincare brand’s award-winning Sculpt Arm Compound (a tightening, serum-like lotion). Think of it as a facial for your arms: they get cleansed, conditioned and exfoliated. The targeted massage helps to give an (albeit temporarily) contoured effect and the lymphatic drainage movements can reduce puffiness. What it’s really best for, though, is the glowing, smooth skin you’re left with, which looks so good that your face might get jealous.

Deleo Cristal Pro from £900, and Sofwave from £2,400, drritarakus.co.uk; AirSculpt from £7,000, uk.elitebodysculpture.com; U Beauty Signature Sculpt, £199, hotelcaferoyal.com/wellness