Q My husband is self-employed and always wants to spend all day working whenever we go away. I get stuck with the childcare and I don’t feel like we ever relax properly. Any advice?

A Love prepares you for marriage the way needlepoint prepares you for round-the-world solo yachting. It should be mandatory for brides-to-be to join the circus to acquire some juggling skills before tying the knot. The day we gals hear a man agonising about how he’s going to juggle kids and career, we’ll know that we’ve finally achieved equality.

The women’s movement promised us that we could Have It All, but we’ve just ended up Doing It All. Anyone would think a female’s wedding vows read “to love, hoover and obey”. Even though women make up 50 per cent of the workforce, in most families, we’re still doing about 99 per cent of all the housework and childcare. Yep, love begins when you sink into his arms … but ends with your arms in his sink, washing up his kids’ breakfast bowls. Even on holiday.

Your letter strikes a particular chord because for 28 years I was married to a brilliant human rights lawyer. Liberating the world’s underdogs from their kennels is a noble calling … but it wasn’t long before I found myself suffering from chronic subpoena-envy. (The two words I hate most in the English language are “pro” and “bono”. Bono should only refer to the Irish rock star.)

Even on vacation, when I’d ask my hubby to change a nappy, he’d reply, “Well, I’d like to but I have 350 people on death row in Trinidad …” What could I say? It was impossible to take the moral high ground. Although, after our first so-called holiday, where I found myself abandoned with a teething baby and tantrumy toddler, I joked, sarcastically, “Oh just let them die!” And, after the second solo-parenting vacation, I wisecracked, “Actually I’m just going to go there and kill them myself!” Of course I was being facetious and we both laughed, but surely human rights should begin at home? Especially a holiday home.

Advertisement

So, what’s the best solution for your workaholic spouse? Well, you could confiscate his laptop and iPhone. Or perhaps book yourself into one of those daily dawn yoga classes and slip out of the villa before the family wake up, leaving him to deal with all that kid chaos.

Or simply choose to holiday with your sisters or girlfriends? If your hubby won’t take a work-free break and show up for his kids, then just leave him to work at home with the kids. Let’s see how that works out for your workaholic. Maybe then he’ll learn not to cut off his nose to spite his spouse.

Hillside Beach Club in Fethiye, Turkey

Make it happen

If yoga is how you relax properly then besides dawn yoga classes you also want some mid-morning yoga classes. And afternoon ones, and maybe some sunset ones. So look at Hillside Beach Club in Fethiye, Turkey, which not only offers a whole menu of yoga practices (plus loads of water sports and activities that don’t involve special breathing), but also has a very highly regarded kids’ club (hillsidebeachclub.com). Seven nights’ full board from £1,099pp, including flights (britishairways.com).

Koh Mook in Thailand GETTY IMAGES

Q My boyfriend and I have been planning a trip of a lifetime — spending three months away, starting in Thailand and touring Cambodia and Laos. The issue is that his mum is joining us for the first part — she’s even booked the flight out that we’ll be on. This is not what I envisaged and it’s causing rows with me and my boyfriend — he says it’s only for a few weeks and, as we’ve been living at her house to save up for the trip, we should just suck it up. What do I do?

Sponsored

A Mothers-in-law get bad press. I’m yet to hear a joke about the stupidity or irritation of fathers-in-law. Try inverting the stereotype. “I took my father-in-law out today. I love being a sniper”; “Definition of mixed emotions: seeing your father-in-law drive over a cliff in your new car.” Not nice, right fellas?

I’ve had two mothers-in-law and loved them both dearly. They were sharp-witted, sassy, breezy broads who could shrug off life’s adversities with a sly wink, a one-liner and lashings of lip gloss.

I suggest you simply embrace this time with the woman who raised the man you love and get to know her better. Don’t cast her out into social Siberia; it’s not her fault that your boyfriend invited her on your Asian escapade.

Sure, you can take your boyfriend to task for his lack of consultation — and claim many compensatory back rubs. But trust me, two and a half months alone with any bloke will be more than enough.

Advertisement

Testament to your boyfriend’s mother’s kindness is the fact that she allowed you to stay in her home while saving money for this trip. Plus, what a considerate son to thank his mum by asking her to join you for a bit. He must get it from her; a case of designer genes.

Oh, and wit and grit are not the only trademarks of older broads. We also have a tendency to buy all the drinks at cocktail o’clock. The broad’s prayer? Lead me into temptation! (Not hard to do in Thailand …) Now all you have to do is follow.

Do you need Kathy’s help with a travel problem? Email us at travel@sunday-times.co.uk

Sign up for our Times Travel newsletter and follow us on Instagram and X