It may be cold and grey in Paris, but it’s also Haute Couture week, which brings a particular colour and buzz to the city as the private clients assemble. For some, the fashion is the priority; for others, it’s also the jewellery as the top houses time their high-jewellery launches to coincide with the couture calendar. Collections tend to be smaller and more focused than the July presentations, but are no less beautiful for it. Here are our top picks.

Victoire de Castellane continues her exploration of the Couture atelier at Dior and the translation of key textile elements — embroidery and lace in particular — into metal and gemstones. Delicate settings with multiple layered stones evoke the lightness of gossamer-fine fabrics and the intricacy of needlepoint in a stand-out series of necklaces and ear climbers. For those familiar with the storied exquisiteness of Dior Haute Couture, these pieces are more than worthy companions. dior.com

Boucheron: The Power of Couture

Boutons pendant earrings in white gold, diamonds and rock crystal, POA; Aiguillette brooch in white gold, diamonds and rock crystal, POA; Medailles brooch in white gold, diamonds and rock crystal, POA; Noeud brooch in white gold, diamonds and rock crystal, POA

More fashion references, this time from Claire Choisne at Boucheron, who focuses on the ceremonial side of couture. Inspired by the father of Boucheron’s founder, who was a draper specialising in silk and lace, she deep-dives into the textures, trimmings and paraphernalia of the tailor-come-couturier’s atelier with a collection of 24 pieces. Again, she utilises carved rock crystal (a speciality of the maison) to mimic grosgrain ribbon, medals, buttons and the braided rope of shoulder ornaments (aiguillettes), mixed with white diamonds for a pure and powerful proposition. boucheron.com

Graff

Necklace in platinum and white gold, rubies and diamonds, POA PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF GRAFF

Every stone within the new high-jewellery collection by Graff has been hand-selected by a member of the Graff family, creating an extraordinary display of exceptional diamonds, sapphires, emeralds and rubies.

Standout pieces include a bangle set with a 118.17-carat unheated Sri Lankan sapphire and a 36.22-carat white oval diamond ring. Design codes are various, from an Art Deco-inspired lozenge and emerald-cut emerald necklace to the soft looping form of a ribbon-inspired diamond necklace set with fancy intense yellow pears, and even (unusually) a bird ring. graff.com

Advertisement

David Morris: Skye

Starburst cuff in white gold, sapphires, Paraíba tourmalines and diamonds, POA

The northern lights or aurora borealis are the inspiration behind David Morris’s new collection, Skye (also named after the brand’s creative director and CEO Jeremy Morris’s youngest daughter). Inspiration is less literal and more palette-led, so the electric blue of Paraíba tourmalines and the deep blush of pink diamonds abound.

Horizon ring in rose gold with a 34.88-carat padparadscha, pink and white diamonds, POA

Standouts include a 34.88-carat padparadscha cocktail ring to mimic the pink aurora, and the Starburst cuff with its inky blue sapphires and pale blue Paraíbas set in a graphic “starburst” framework. davidmorris.com

Louis Vuitton: Deep Time

Deep Time Bones high-jewellery ring in white gold, tourmaline and diamonds, POA

Francesca Amfitheatrof’s Deep Time collection for Louis Vuitton was a highlight of last year’s summer high-jewellery launches. Now in a second wave the journey continues, mapping the origins of the universe, the formation of the planets and the beginnings of life itself.

Deep Time Myriad high-jewellery earrings in white gold and diamonds, POA

Plants, Bones and Seeds are just some of the new sub-chapters or themes (16 in total) in what is now an epic, expansive body of work from her and the French maison. louisvuitton.com

Cartier: Le Voyage Recommence

Yfalos necklace in platinum, coral, turquoise, emeralds and diamonds, POA

Sponsored

Cartier’s Le Voyage Recommencé adds another chapter to the collection that was first launched in Florence last year. Nature and world cultures are the wide-reaching themes that give the house plenty of free rein to revel in its mastery of colour combinations and gemstone compositions. Standout is the Yfalos necklace in a colour-clash tour de force of coral, emeralds and turquoise. As with all Cartier high-jewellery creations, the aesthetic is pushed forward just a fraction, while always being mindful of the weight of its history. cartier.co.uk

Chaumet: Un Air de Chaumet

Plumes d’or earcuffs in platinum, white and rose gold and diamonds, POA

Brooches, earrings and hair ornaments only make up Chaumet’s latest offering in a small collection inspired by birds, a theme that is found as early as 1870 in the maison’s archive. Golden feathers, darting swallows, birds of paradise and a more abstract evocation of plumage ruffled by wind, make up a collection that offers multiple ways to transform and wear each piece. A sense of movement and a quiet elegance are key Chaumet signifiers and Un Air de Chaumet is no different. chaumet.com

De Beers: Forces of Nature

De Beers Forces of Nature Zebra Jacket ring in white gold, black lacquer and diamond, POA; De Beers Forces of Nature Elephant Crown ring in white gold, white and pink diamond, POA PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIPPE LACOMBE

Eight one-off rings make up De Beers’s Forces of Nature collection, each one based on an animal emblematic of southern Africa. A central diamond links each ring: a “jacket” or “crown” with distinguishing design elements from each creature surrounds each gem, and is detachable. Favourites include the lion, with a mane of beaded gold, and the buffalo, with its distinctive horns picked out in brown diamonds. debeers.co.uk