If I were the health secretary I’d send everyone in the country to Combe Grove, a new metabolic health retreat just outside Bath. Obviously I’d be sacked instantly for blowing the budget, but my legacy would be golden.

Because at a time when 64 per cent of adults in England are obese or overweight and more than a third have prediabetes, and when poor diet and lifestyle habits cost the NHS more than £11 billion a year, Combe Grove is on a mission to tackle it, teaching people how to balance their metabolic health. That means getting everything within a healthy range, from blood sugar and blood pressure to cholesterol, triglycerides and waist circumference.

Achieving the right balance can be life-changing, as Dr Campbell Murdoch, the centre’s medical director, explains. “Poor metabolic health is the driver behind most modern disease: type 2 diabetes, heart disease, strokes, high blood pressure andeven dementia.” Balance the metabolism, he says, which is easily measurable and can be a quick process, “and we see guests come off blood pressure medication and reverse their prediabetes or even type 2 diabetes”. It all takes place in a pretty Georgian manor house set in 70 acres of Dick Turpin-style woodland and owned by the businesswoman, philanthropist and visionaryHelen Aylward Smith, who runs it through her charity, the Elmhurst Foundation.

While all the retreats are focused on metabolic health, some are skewed to specific issues such as prediabetes, pre-operation and gut health. I’m here for (whisper it) the menopause retreat. I know I shouldn’t whisper it but, come on . . . it’s not hot (well, not in a good way). I’m still in the “peri” phase, but because I’ve had breast cancer and have been advised against HRT unless the symptoms are diabolical, I have a recurring nightmare that I’ma boiling, hirsute, crepey-skinned, libidoless crone while my HRT-smearing girlfriends are coolly bouncing through it, as fit and sexy as Davina McCall. I need all the natural support I can get.

My fellow retreaters are a gang of six women, all at different stages of midlife but with a common goal: they want the next half of their life to be as fabulous as the first. We take a bunch of tests, including a body composition analysis to determine visceral fat and muscle mass, blood pressure and blood tests for cholesterol, and blood glucose and triglyceride checks to gauge our starting positions. Then the programme gets going with daily lectures from doctors and practitioners on how sleep, nutrition, movement, mindset and environment can affect metabolic health.

Advertisement

There’s quite a lot of science, but the crux of it is to flatten our blood glucose levels in an effort to avoid insulin resistance. Around the menopause, when oestrogen levels decline, that’s the first bad-boy domino to knock over — even if you are on HRT. Next in line is to eliminate visceral fat, then deal with low energy, depression, anxiety, aches and pains, and poor sleep.

The dream scenario is to achieve homeostasis — a state of balance and stability. If your body is busy battling inflammation from poor diet and lifestyle choices, how the hell can it be expected to balance your hormones.

Combe Grove is a manor house turned wellness centre PETE HELME

To help us to nail this we’re given a glucose monitor to clamp to our arms, with a tiny needle that reads blood glucose levels every 15 minutes, then sends the metrics to a phone app. It’s genius. I can see in real time how a few candied walnuts in my salad create a big sugar spike. But if I go for a perky walk straight after dinner (delicious by the way, featuring veg from Combe Grove’s Eden-like kitchen garden) my blood glucose levels swiftly slide back down. (A cluster of almonds or a capful of apple cider vinegar in a glass of water before a meal can also, I learnt, calm a spike.)

Alongside the learning, over five days I practise yoga, have an eye-opening pelvic health appointment, try forest bathing, weight training, acupuncture and meditation, and have a one-to-one nutrition session. One evening we go badger-spotting at dusk, on another we have a mortifyingly brilliant belly-dancing session, a reminder that the menopause doesn’t have to rob you of confidence and sensuality.

Sponsored

• Why I fitted a spa in my London terraced house

• The best luxury spas in London

• The 17 best luxury spas to book for 2023 — in the UK and beyond

Unlike many wellness retreats, which spit you out at the end like a blinking newborn lamb into a bad old world of giant Toblerones and cocktails, at Combe Grove you’re monitored for a whole year, with one-to-one online appointments, blood tests and hand-holding as you continue the work to make long-term changes.

The centre has plans to take its ideas far and wide, which could be a game changer. For now it feels like a David and Goliath story: on one side the negative loop of big food and big pharma creating a society that eats shit, gets sick and medicates; on the other Combe Grove, a valiant circuit breaker taking down the greedy conglomerates one metabolically healthy person at a time. Join the fight.

A one-week menopause and perimenopause retreat and year-long support programme costs from £2,900, combegrove.com

Fairmont’s new medi-spa is extravagantly comprehensive PETE HELME

Space fit for a queen

Danielle Craft trials Fairmont’s new medi-spa in Windsor

Raj Arora’s father-in-law is a billionaire. No doubt she could spend all day at home eating bonbons. Instead, she has built a space dedicated to skincare and aesthetics that is the jewel in the crown of a spectacular spa, itself the treasure of the Arora-owned Fairmont Windsor Park hotel.

Advertisement

Setting up a cute little clinic in daddy-in-law’s hotel may not sound too taxing, but the Facebible, as it is called, has state-of-the-art facilities and an impressive range of aesthetic, skin and health treatments — including advanced peels, injectables and the very latest devices and lasers — expertly masterminded by Raj, who happens to be a doctor.

In a masterstroke of cohesion, the clinic also offers private GP services to hotel guests and spa members. These include Wellwoman health checks and blood work. If you’re checking in for a spa day (and being within an hour’s reach of central London, the spa is perfect for a day trip), why wouldn’t you have it all done at once? You can drift from massage to nails to haircut to Botox to smear test. It’s a no-brainer. The apparently infinite gym has a scanner that maps your body in 3D, as well as lots of classes and a spin studio. In the hotel’s grounds there are tennis and (now mandatory for those who consider themselves at the sharp end of fitness trends) padel courts.

The spa, at more than 2,500sq m, is extravagantly comprehensive. It has 18 treatment rooms (ask for a massage with Rekha — now there’s a woman fizzing with enthusiasm for her job) and facilities that are nothing short of astonishing: a cryotherapy chamber, dry floatation chamber, pools, hairdressers, nail bar, Himalayan salt mist room, steam room, sauna and hammam, and a phone-free, soundproofed space with ten beds for taking little naps.

fairmont-windsorpark.com