A long weekend in Venice had been on my wishlist for years, but I’d never made it happen until now. Why? I realised that I might have been putting it off because I was single and it seemed such a romantic place. One of my friends got engaged there; another chose it for an anniversary with his boyfriend; another for her honeymoon. I thought one day that would be me. I just had to wait.

I’d even suggested the city to someone I was dating for our first trip together. Things ended last month, but I decided I should stop waiting and just go. It was the perfect catalyst.

I booked my flights days before to coincide with Valentine’s Day, for two reasons: one, it was better than eating an M&S ready meal alone with a rom-com; two, I wanted to prove to myself that I could love the city as much on my own as with a partner.

Before leaving I also decided to follow the example of Elizabeth Gilbert, author of Eat, Pray, Love, when on a four-month stint in Italy she swore off men. OK, I was only going for five days, but I aimed to do the same. It would be easy to get wrapped up in a whirlwind holiday romance (I have previously), but I wanted to be happy spending time alone. Besides, Venice was the home of Casanova, the original womaniser, and I don’t need to meet any more of those.

The Rialto Bridge in Venice GETTY IMAGES

I took a water taxi into the city from the airport, picking a seat at the back that was open to the wind and the spray (from £32; getyourguide.com). The further into the maze of canals we went, the more spectacular the views became: the mighty dome of the Basilica of Santa Maria della Salute; the centuries-old palazzi in faded pastel colours; the gondoliers in their striped jumpers; the terraces with people sipping shimmering spritzes — it was the romantic introduction I was looking for.

Advertisement

I got dropped off near my hotel in the trendy Dorsoduro district and immediately saw a burly merman and a pair of periwigged flunkies. It was the end of the annual Carnevale, when locals and tourists dress in elaborate masks and costumes. Candy-coloured confetti covered the pavements and I heard triumphant notes from trumpets, violins and guitars everywhere.

I left my bags and went in search of an Aperol spritz. At the casual wine bar Osteria Ai Pugni, on Fondamenta Gherardini, they were just £3 — though, as the barman informed me, the Select spritz is far more Venetian. I sat with my book in the winter sunshine outside (@osteria_ai_pugni).

That evening — after a bowl of duck ragu pasta at my hotel, Il Palazzo Experimental — I poked my head into the cocktail bar. It was properly swish and sexy, a riot of pink walls, velvet stools and flickering candles; not somewhere I felt at ease solo, but I was here to venture beyond my comfort zone.

And soon I was chatting to people at the bar — one couple and a mix of friends and solos like me, in their twenties and thirties. All were Italian, but they kindly translated into English for me. A spicy margarita made with Italian peppers and Espolon tequila helped my confidence.

Lizzie Frainier by the canals in Venice

Sponsored

Elena, a Venetian unwinding after a shift at her family’s restaurant, taught me some local swear words that I won’t repeat here. We bonded over having both lived in Barcelona and the joys of discovering a new place on your own. It was 1am when she said: “Hey, it’s my day off tomorrow. I can show you around.”

I wondered whether her friendliness was a result of the drinks we’d sunk — but by mid-morning she texted saying that she’d take me to her favourite bacari (wine bars) after I explored the Guggenheim, also in Dorsoduro. Here, I loved The Angel of the City, Marino Marini’s bronze sculpture of a naked man riding a horse. When she commissioned it Peggy Guggenheim made sure it would be possible to remove the large appendage when more prudish guests were staying (£14; guggenheim-venice.it).

Elena took me to Vini Al Bottegon, an old-school place lined with wine bottles (Fondamenta Nani 992). She told me to order the egg mayo cicchetti topped with dried flowers — it was salty, sweet and scrumptious. She laughed at her prosecco disappearing so quickly, saying: “There’s a hole in my glass.” Venice is known for being the booziest corner of Italy, but it’s also why you will always feel welcome alone at a bar — it’s part of the culture, she said.

And she was right — it was impossible not to make friends: two men from Naples dressed for Carnevale; a Californian man revisiting his youth; an Italian family happy to share recommendations. You can be solo here, but you’re never totally alone.

Make like the Venetians and trade your Aperol for a Select spritz GETTY IMAGES

Advertisement

Elena and I visited three more spots, including Enoteca Al Volto for polpette veneziane (deep-fried meatballs; enotecaalvolto.com) and Cantina do Mori, where Casanova often brought his first dates (Calle Do Mori 429). At the latter, over chorizo, we exchanged life stories and delved into the state of our hearts (hers given to a gondolier; mine open and hopeful). This is part of the joy of travelling solo — not only can you do exactly what you want, but it’s easier to be spontaneous and meet locals. Had I been here with a boyfriend we would have been wrapped up in our own world. Neither is better than the other; they are both their own kind of magic.

• Venice travel guide: everything you need to know

• 17 of the best hotels in Venice

If you don’t find a Venetian friend, a three-hour cicchetti food tour will show you great local spots — including crab sandwiches and fried seafood with polenta — and help you to meet other travellers (from £76pp; getyourguide.com).

The next night I went to Teatro La Fenice, where the elaborate gold and red design is like the inside of an antique jewellery box. The performance of The Barber of Seville — a love story, naturally — was enchanting. I wore a burgundy velvet dress and gold sequin heels, trying to embody “mysterious, glamorous woman alone at the opera”. It didn’t matter if anyone else thought it; I felt it (from £13; teatrolafenice.it).

Teatro La Fenice

On Valentine’s Day there were signs of love everywhere — couples holding bouquets, attaching locks to bridges and drinking bellinis at sunset. It was easy to spot other kinds of love too, though — a group of women deep in conversation in a cosy trattoria, a father lifting his son to the sky or an elderly woman with her last bite of pistachio tiramisu.

I bought myself a rose at the foot of the Ponte dell’Accademia and took it with me as I stopped in galleries including the screen-print studio Fallani Venezia (fallanivenezia.com). Later I surveyed the sprawling view of the terracotta rooftops and lagoon from the bell tower of St Mark’s Campanile (£10; basilicasanmarco.it). People smiled at me when they saw the rose, and I smiled back. Later I offered it to an Italian girl aged about seven; the stem was nearly as tall as her, and her face lit up as she took it.

The last stop on my romantic tour was a private gondola ride. I felt a bit embarrassed approaching the gondoliers at the meeting point at Bacino Orseolo Rialto. When one asked, “Just you? No one else?” I shrugged my shoulders and climbed in before I could back out (from £129; viator.com).

Advertisement

My gondolier, Stefano, sang loudly and jovially. The only words I could understand were “amore”and “Venezia”. But that was all I needed to know. Love is so much bigger than just romantic love — and Venice knows it. That’s what made it so easy to feel content here, because all kinds of love are celebrated. So much so that I’d like to make a solo Valentine’s trip a yearly tradition — whether I’m single or not.

Lizzie Frainier was a guest of Il Palazzo Experimental, which has B&B doubles from £180 (palazzoexperimental.com), Teatro La Fenice, Get Your Guide and Viator

Would you go on a solo holiday to Venice? Let us know in the comments below

Sign up for our Times Travel newsletter and follow us on Instagram and X