Complaints about inaccuracies in all sections of The Sunday Times should be addressed to complaints@sunday-times.co.uk or Complaints, The Sunday Times, 1 London Bridge Street, London SE1 9GF. Find more details on our complaints procedure here. In addition, the Independent Press Standards Organisation (Ipso) will examine formal complaints about the editorial content of UK newspapers and magazines.

■ February 18, 2024

We said the London-based team at GQ magazine had been “let go”, and that the publisher Condé Nast is creating a single global print edition of each of its titles (Business, last week). GQ still has a team in London, and Condé Nast says most of its print titles have distinct national editions and will continue to do so. We are happy to set this on record.

■ December 24, 2023

We wrongly said that councils are legally obliged to pay for taxis to school for children with an education, health and care plan (Comment, last week). While councils do pay for taxis in many cases, the existence of such a plan does not oblige them to do so.

Advertisement

■ December 10, 2023

We wrongly said Labour frontbenchers were absent from the march against antisemitism in London (Comment, last week). It was attended by the shadow science minister, Peter Kyle.

Wycombe Abbey gained 97.5 per cent grades 9-7 at GCSE, not 90.75 per cent as we wrongly said, and should have appeared in 17th place in our top 100 independent schools. We apologise for the error.

■ December 3, 2023

Sponsored

An article on inheritance tax said an extra £175,000 allowance applies if the estate includes a family home worth up to £2 million and left to a direct descendant (Money, last week). In fact the allowance applies if the entire estate is worth up to £2 million and includes a family home left to a direct descendant.

We said that from March 2026 all councils in England will be required to recycle the same materials and have a standard of three bins: refuse, mixed recycling and food (News, last week). In fact the standard for kerbside recycling collections is still under consultation.

■ November 12, 2023

We said there is no ministerial-level involvement in how the Scottish government delivers its AI strategy (Alf Young, Business, last week). This was incorrect. Innovation minister Richard Lochhead has led the Scottish government’s AI agenda since taking office on March 29 2023. His responsibilities include acting as sponsor minister for the Scottish AI Alliance.

Advertisement

■ September 17, 2023

We said P&O Ferries has stopped paying into the Merchant Navy Ratings Pension Fund, and has pledged the ship Pride of Burgundy to the fund’s trustees as security (Business, last week). The company says it continues to make interest payments to the fund, and the security pledged is the vessels Pride of Hull and European Causeway. We are happy to make this clear.

■ September 10, 2023

An article headlined “Sunak’s threat to pull UK out of the ECHR”, published on February 5, 2023, stated that “official estimates suggest there will be almost a 50 per cent increase in illegal migration on last year, when 45,000 claimed asylum” and that “45,000 illegal migrants” had arrived that same year. This conflated being an illegal migrant with being an asylum seeker in a misleading manner; it is not illegal to enter the UK for the purpose of claiming asylum, notwithstanding that the method of arrival may be illegal. This correction has been published following an upheld ruling by the Independent Press Standards Organisation.

An underactive thyroid is hypothyroidism, not hyperthyroidism as we wrongly said (News, last week).

Lord Sumption is a former Supreme Court justice, not a former lord chief justice (Comment, last week).

■ September 3, 2023

Advertisement

We wrongly said in “A tour of picturesque York that you’re not meant to enjoy” (News Review, last week) that repairs to York Minster were being funded by the Church of England’s investment in the South Sea Company, which traded slaves. In fact the repairs are entirely funded by the minster’s own income from ticket and retail sales, property lets, grants, donations and legacies. We are happy to make this clear.

The Ulez charge affects most diesel cars registered before 2015 and most petrol cars registered before 2006, not pre-2015 petrol and pre-2006 diesel as we wrongly said.

■ August 27, 2023

We said that full costs of medical treatment abroad were applicable even to those who travel with a Global Health Insurance Card or GHIC (Money, Aug 13). In fact the card entitles the carrier to care on the same basis as local residents in participating countries, but in practice not all medical facilities accept the GHIC. We are happy to make this clear.

■ August 20, 2023

Whole life orders as a starting point in the sentencing of murderers of police officers came into force in 2015, not 2020 as we wrongly said (Comment, last week).

■ August 13, 2023

Advertisement

In our digital edition, a picture caption wrongly stated that John Caldwell of the Police Service of Northern Ireland was shot dead. Detective Chief Inspector Caldwell was seriously wounded in the attack but survived. The caption has been amended and we apologise for the mistake. (Comment, this week)

Rolls Royce nuclear reactors use pressurised water technology, not boiling water technology as we wrongly said (Business, last week).

■ August 6, 2023

The Open golf tournament is organised by the R&A, not DP World Tour as we wrongly said (News, July 23).

We said per capita income in the US state of Mississippi has risen by 25 per cent in the last five years, and in Britain real wages and living standards have not grown since 2007 (“We’re missing a trick by not being like Mississippi”, News Review, last week). The comparison was misleading because the Mississippi figures were not adjusted for inflation, which accounted for a large proportion of the increase. We have also been asked to point out that data from the Office for National Statistics indicates that British living standards have risen since 2007, albeit slowly by historical standards. The same article included a graph that compared per capita GDP in Mississippi and the UK: again the Mississippi figures were not adjusted for inflation and therefore the graph was misleading.

■ July 15, 2023

We said the organisation 38 Degrees allowed people to send pre-composed emails to their MP (Magazine, last week). 38 Degrees has informed us it does not provide template emails for users, whose messages are their own. We are happy to make this clear.

■ July 02, 2023

We said seven protesters campaigning to save trees in Sheffield were paid £24,300 by Yorkshire police (News Review, last week). The force that made the payment was South Yorkshire police. We are happy to make this clear.

■ June 25, 2023

The song Naatu Naatu was introduced at the Oscars by Deepika Padukone, not by Alia Bhatt as we wrongly said (Style, last week).

■ May 28, 2023

We said rural Transylvania is mostly Hungarian-speaking (News, last week). While this is true of two counties, including the one where King Charles’s Zalanpatak house is located, Romanian-speakers form a majority across the region.

The restaurant chain Café Rouge is closing branches but is not in receivership, as we wrongly said (News Review, last week).

■ May 6, 2023

We said that Boris Johnson asked Richard Sharp to help facilitate a loan (Comment, last week). While Adam Heppinstall KC’s report on the matter said Mr Sharp attempted to introduce a Canadian businessman to the cabinet secretary, and the businessman went on to guarantee an £800,000 loan to the prime minister, it did not find that Mr Sharp attempted the introduction at the prime minister’s request. We are happy to make this clear.

■ April 30, 2023

Just Stop Oil’s avowed aim is for the government to stop licensing all new oil, gas and coal projects, not to end all hydrocarbon use in the next two years as we said.

■ April 2, 2023

We said Lloyd Russell-Moyle MP had argued that children should be taught how to do “risky sex acts safely” (Comment, last week). Mr Russell-Moyle has informed us that when he said he wished his 15-year-old nephew had been “taught about risky sex acts … and how to make sure he did things safely”, he meant that children should be taught to have sex safely and that there should be protections to ensure risky acts are not promoted. We are happy to make this clear.

We said the Gender Recognition Reform (Scotland) Bill was blocked by royal assent (Culture, last week). In fact the bill was blocked by the Scotland secretary before it could receive royal assent.

Wales and Scotland did not abolish school inspections in the early 2000s as we claimed (Comment, last week).

We said the former MP Michael Dugher still has a parliamentary pass (Comment, last week). In fact he gave up his pass in 2022 after his continuing parliamentary access was publicised in the press.

■ March 19, 2023

An article said those who pay higher rate tax receive 40 per cent tax relief on all pension contributions (ISA Special, last week). In fact only contributions from income taxed at 40 per cent receive this rate of relief.



We said that Gary Lineker compared government immigration policy to Nazi Germany (News, last week). In fact he likened the language used about the policy to that used in Germany in the 1930s. We are happy to make this clear.

■ March 12, 2023

Further to our article on Tiktok (News Review, last week) the company has informed us that Beijing Douyin Service Ltd has no visibility or control over any other global business, including TikTok; that the blackout challenge pre-dates TikTok and it has never found any evidence of this type of content trending on its platform; that facial, body and voice information are used for filters, effects and for safety, not to identify unique individuals; and that keystroke pattern recognition is used to identify malicious actors such as bots, without capturing the content of what is being typed.

■ March 5, 2023

We wrongly said Birmingham city council was a client of Subrosa, a private security company hired to catch fly-tippers (News, last week).

■ February 26, 2023

We said that 58 academics wrote an open letter demanding Nigel Biggar’s Ethics and Empire programme be shut down (Books, Culture, Feb 5). In fact that demand came from one of the signatories in a separate tweet. The academics’ letter as published said that the ideas and aims of the programme were not those of most scholars. We are happy to put the correct position on record.



We said that Philip Hammond wrote an article for the Chinese Communist Party newspaper China Daily (Comment, last week). Mr Hammond has informed us that the article was an edited transcript of a speech that was published without his permission, and China Daily has now removed it from its website and apologised. We are happy to set the record straight.

■ February 12, 2023

An article on the Manchester United footballer Mason Greenwood wrongly quoted Erik ten Hag, the club’s manager, saying, “Let’s wait for the judgment. If he’s proven innocent, he would get a place in my team” (Sport, last week). Mr ten Hag has informed us he never used those words. We are happy to set the record straight.

We said the government of David Lloyd George outlawed the sale of honours (Comment, last week). In fact, Stanley Baldwin was prime minister when the legislation was passed in 1925.

We said the drug liraglutide, marketed as Saxenda, is prescribed for both weight loss and diabetes (News, last week). Saxenda is used for weight loss only; Victoza, a different dosage of liraglutide, is used for type 2 diabetes. We also said that webinars sponsored by the drug company Novo Nordisk did not list side effects for Saxenda. In fact, side effects were noted in the presentation

■ February 5, 2023

The Canadian city of Vancouver sits on the Fraser River, not the Columbia as we wrongly said (Travel, last week).

■ January 15, 2023

We said Professor Keith Vickerman discovered surface antigens on malaria parasites (Magazine, Jan 1). In fact he found them on trypanosomes, protozoa involved in sleeping sickness.

■ January 8, 2023

We reported a claim that only men had been promoted during Professor David Crossman’s tenure as Dean of St Andrews University’s School of Medicine (“Nicola Sturgeon’s chief scientist ‘presides over an old boys’ club at St Andrews faculty’” News, September 26 2021 ). We have been asked to make clear that this claim applied only to professorships at the school of medicine, and we are happy to do so.

■ January 1, 2023

We said the broadcaster Samira Ahmed won apologies from the BBC over gender pay inequality at the corporation (Culture, Dec 4). We acknowledge that while the BBC did apologise to Carrie Gracie and for gender pay inequality in general, it did not apologise to Ahmed. We are happy to set this on record and have amended the original article.

Corrections and clarifications 2022

Corrections and clarifications 2021

Corrections and clarifications 2020

Corrections and clarifications 2019