With 99 million souls and a coastline that wrinkles 2,000 miles along the country from north to south, there are plenty of people to meet and a lot to see, do and eat in Vietnam. I first visited in 2004 and have returned many times since. It’s easy to follow the tourist trail of historic Hanoi, ethereal Halong Bay, shopping emporium Hoi An and buzzy Ho Chi Minh City, but push a little further and you’ll be rewarded with some dazzling and memorable experiences.

Mine have been when I’ve gone the extra mile, quite literally: a magical three-day cruise to the outer battlements of Halong Bay; a thrilling motorbike trip through the sugarloaf peaks and beyond in remote mountainous Ha Giang; meeting the last wild elephant catcher in Yok Don National Park. Taking in the elaborate mausoleums and sites of Vietnam’s last imperial dynasty deepened my understanding; sighting the endemic, critically endangered Cat Ba langur on Cat Ba island was exciting; and I loved exploring the history, food and pristine beaches of Con Dao island. And of course the irresistible, fragrant food, delicious coffee, craft cocktails and beer will lead you everywhere.

Main photo: Hmong girls in traditional dress celebrate Spring Festival in Ha Giang (Alamy)

This article contains affiliate links, which may earn us revenue

If you only have . . .

One week Hanoi, a boat trip to Halong Bay and the rice fields of the Mai Chau Valley

Two weeks After Hanoi, Halong Bay and Mai Chau, hop on trains and domestic flights to visit imperial Hue, the DMZ, the ruins of My Son, gorgeous Hoi An and energetic Ho Chi Minh City

Three weeks Take in Ha Giang in the far north, Dalat in the Central Highlands or the caves of Phong Nha-Ke Bang National Park, a beach break, and a boat trip along the Mekong Delta or a couple of days on remote Con Dao island

A tight budget Balance domestic flights with long-distance train journeys and Vietnam’s excellent network of hop-on hop-off “open tickets” on air-conditioned minibuses

1. Hanoi

Street food vendors in the night markets of Hanoi’s Old Quarter (Getty Images)

Hanoi is noisy, traffic-choked and beautiful all at once. The thousand-year-old city of lakes, founded on a bend of the Red River, is full of history, charm, museums, shops, markets and wonderful street food. Don’t miss the Old Quarter, the heart of the city, where you’ll find lots of food, hotels and temples cheek-by-jowl with shops. Learn how to dodge the motorbikes while on a street-food tour or exploring the ochre-hued French colonial villas, Ho Chi Minh’s Mausoleum, the Temple of Literature, the “Hanoi Hilton” prison museum of Hoa Lo and the Vietnam Museum of Ethnology.

Make it happen

The Sofitel Legend Metropole is where Graham Greene stayed in 1951 while working for Paris Match. It’s the city’s top address and is elegant throughout



Exodus’ 14-day Vietnam Adventure takes in two full days in Hanoi with a comprehensive city tour

2. Ha Giang

Children in Ha Giang province (Alamy)

Ha Giang is Vietnam’s northernmost region, pushing up against the border with China. It’s an otherworldly landscape of sugarloaf peaks, mountain passes and rice paddies carved into impossibly steep mountains. Find villages of Red Dzao, Flower Hmong and other local minorities, markets, eco-stays and a window into a rural world of timeless traditions such as weaving. Don’t miss the palace of the Hmong king who raked in revenue from opium farming. En route, stop at the dazzling rice paddy region of Mu Cang Chai.

Make it happen

Panhou Retreat, up in the mountains, is a peaceful nature resort with bungalows dotted amid the trees, a spa, and hot springs

Inside Asia’s 11-day Vietnam’s Northern Soul is an in-depth exploration of the region taking in trekking, rice paddies, tea terraces, markets and visits to remote villages

insideasiatours.com

3. Pu Luong and Mai Chau

A visitor takes a photo in the terraces of Pu Luong (Alamy)

Not too far from Hanoi are these idyllic retreats found amid neon-green rice paddies. At Pu Luong nature reserve, with its homestays and eco-retreats, trek past the paddies and orchards of the Muong people and cruise down a river on a traditional bamboo raft in a landscape woven with traditional water wheels. This area is home to rare Asian black bear, Owston’s palm civet and endangered Delacour’s langur. North is the exceptionally beautiful Mai Chau Valley, a serene landscape carved in rice paddies. Stay at the lovely Avana Retreat, built by local Hmong, White Thai and Black Thai people.

Make it happen

Avana Retreat is built and staffed by local people. Its beautiful thatched rooms blend with the rippling contours of rice paddies



G Adventures’ 11-day Vietnam: Hanoi, Halong Bay and trekking Pu Luong tour is one of few that takes in trekking in Pu Luong, an overnight stay, and a barbecue lunch made by local chefs

4. Bai Tu Long Bay, Halong Bay

Bai Tu Long Bay (Alamy)

Boats — from junks to elegant luxury vessels — cruise through the waters of Unesco-protected Halong Bay, which is studded with thousands of craggy limestone outcrops. It’s an ethereal landscape and with each turn of weather can bring dense fog or crisp blue skies. It won’t matter — it’s all enchanting. To make the most of it, head out on a boat for at least two nights to cruise to the outer “fortress” of towers — Bai Tu Long Bay. It’s more magical and it escapes the crowds of one-day and one-night boats.

Make it happen

Bhaya’s Au Co Cruise sails to the outer reaches of the silent bay with wonderful close-up views, smart bedrooms and delicious, artfully presented cuisine

Audley’s 19-day Classic Vietnam tour includes two nights on the Paradise Sails boat exploring the limestone stacks and coves of the outer limits of the bay

audleytravel.com

5. Hue and the DMZ

A gate in the Imperial City of Hue (Getty Images)

Hue was the cultural and political power base of the Nguyen emperors, Vietnam’s last imperial dynasty. They built a citadel, gilded in bronze, enamel and lacquer, with gates for themselves, elephants and their minions, based on the Forbidden City of Beijing. They lived in extravagant regal splendour surrounded by concubines and eunuchs. And they fashioned their last resting places, all gothic-meets-Confucius and geomantic in design, landscaped with streams, statues and elaborate graves that trace the serpentine route of Hue’s Perfume River. This city is often overlooked in favour of Hoi An as a central Vietnam stop, but don’t miss it. The thousand-plus dishes of the imperial household are still eaten, too. From here, explore the Demilitarized Zone marking the border established in 1954 between the communist north and the US-backed south.

Make it happen

Pilgrimage Village Boutique and Spa is an exquisite address just outside the historic centre of Hue. Think garden rooms, leafy plots, a spa and a perfect oblong pool



Original Travel’s 12-day An intro to Vietnam, North to South includes an in-depth tour of Hue’s imperial past as well as other significant buildings

originaltravel.co.uk

6. Danang and China beach

The fire-breathing Dragon Bridge in Danang (Alamy)

China beach, an 18-mile curve of golden sand along the sea, was made famous by thousands of American GIs who would sunbathe here for R&R during the Vietnam War. Today, it’s more fabulous, with some top hotel retreats, such as the Four Seasons and, hidden amid the forest of monkeys on a small peninsula, the outstanding InterContinental Danang Sun Peninsula designed by Asia-based architect Bill Bensley. But there’s more — the incomparable Museum of Cham Sculpture with its beautiful carved sandstone works, the nearby Unesco-protected ruins of My Son, the spiritual capital of the Cham, an Indianised culture, and Danang’s fire-breathing Dragon Bridge.

Make it happen

Architect Bill Bensley has weaved his magic on the glamorous InterContinental Danang Sun Peninsula. Come for the cute funicular, the pool villas and the restaurant

Explore’s 14-day Inside Vietnam is one of few tours taking in the Cham museum, the My Son ruins and an optional visit to My Lai, site of a wartime massacre

7. Hoi An

The old town of Hoi An (Getty Images)

Yes, it’s touristy, but that’s because it’s gorgeous. The ancient port of Hoi An is filled with Chinese temples, large merchant houses, and hundreds of tailors and craft shops. One-storey ochre-coloured homes line the small lantern-lit streets along the Unesco-protected town’s Thu Bon river. Come for the atmosphere, tailor-made clothes, and the delicious street food including some tantalising local dishes. Nearby An Bang beach provides downtime, too.

Make it happen

The Four Seasons Nam Hai is a sublime beachfront property. Large, gorgeous villas dot the peaceful gardens, where pools and coconut palms facing the sea

Wendy Wu’s 12-day Vietnam at a Glance ensures time spent immersed in Hoi An, meeting artisans and visiting a farming village — plus plenty left for tailoring

8. Ninh Van Bay

The beach at Ninh Van Bay (Getty Images)

Ninh Van Bay is a divine little hideaway close to the major seaside resort of Nha Trang. Escape from the city to this peninsula, just north, for some serious beach time. An Lam Retreats Ninh Van Bay is dreamy with a boho vibe, while Six Senses Ninh Van Bay is on a sublime stretch of sand with villas tucked away between and behind huge boulders. It’s just you, the beach, the restaurant and your butler at Six Senses Ninh Van Bay. The waterfalls and forests of the peninsula can be explored too.

Make it happen

Six Senses Ninh Van Bay is a barefoot getaway with villas and their private pools perched on huge biscuit-coloured boulders facing the sea. It’s boho, supremely beautiful and comes with butler service

Scott Dunn’s 11-night luxury Limitless Vietnam indulges with four nights at Ninh Van Bay and organised activities

scottdunn.com

9. Dalat

A 1930s railway station in Dalat (Alamy)

Dalat is a quirky place. A former French hill station up in the pine-scented highlands with a central lake, it’s ringed by attractive early 20th-century homes and villas (some hotels, some museums), markets, flower gardens and waterfalls. There’s even a golf course. Today, the city is filled with bars and cute cafés and is a great base from which to explore a load of kooky spots including the Crazy House homestay, cactus and coffee playground Kombi Land and a dragon statue made from thousands of glass bottles. Don’t miss checking out the French-built railway station, a Wes Anderson shoo-in.

Make it happen

Ana Mandara Villas Dalat Resort & Spa is a cute little hilltop hotel fashioned from an ochre-hued villa

Intrepid Travel’s 15-day Premium Vietnam in Depth offers plenty of time to explore Dalat, its quirky sites and coffee culture

10. Ho Chi Minh City

Cao Dai cathedral at Tay Ninh (Alamy)

Ho Chi Minh is a heady city of nine million people and eight million motorbikes. It has brilliant street food, is draped in a fantastic array of fairy lights and is fuelled by a growing craft beer, spirit and cocktail scene and a thrilling, infectious energy. What two decades ago was a fairly low-rise city has now been dwarfed by an army of high rises. Don’t miss exploring the city on the back of a motorbike, visiting the top sites, and taking a trip out to the Viet Cong tunnels at Cu Chi and the fantastically decorated Cao Dai cathedral at Tay Ninh. Sampling the food and coffee goes without saying.

Make it happen

The Park Hyatt Saigon isn’t the best-looking from the outside. Step inside, though, and it’s a dazzler. Its restaurants and bars are top city addresses and the lovely pool is a boon on humid days. It’s right in the heart of the city, too, just behind the opera house.



Riviera Travel’s 16-day Vietnam and Cambodia tour three night-stay in Ho Chi Minh City ensures plenty of time to take in the sites and the food and explore the tunnels at Cu Chi



11. Mekong Delta

A fruit vendor at a floating market on the Mekong Delta (Getty Images)

The liquid fingers of the Mekong River slink through southern Vietnam into the sea. Here you’ll find a mostly rural way of life with floating markets, temples and churches, and market farms harvesting coconut, bananas, mangos and veg. It’s not so much specific sites but a dip into the region’s culture — a mix of Cham, Khmer and Vietnamese, war history (Xeo Quyt’s Viet Cong forest bunkers are fascinating), wetlands and birds, and delicious food.

Make it happen

The prettily illuminated, French-inspired Victoria Can Tho faces the waterfront in lush grounds on the edge of Can Tho city. You can tour the waterways and floating markets of the delta using its own boats.



On Wendy Wu’s ten-day Magnificent Mekong cruise on the eco-friendly Victoria Mekong you’ll visit floating markets and local temples, meet artisans and explore wetlands

12. Con Dao archipelago

Vistiors at the cemetery on Con Dao (Getty Images)

Con Dao was once a prison island run by the French and then the Americans. Today, this remote island off the south coast of Vietnam is a nature paradise, internationally recognised (by Ramsar) wetland area and home to the most important location for nesting sea turtles in Vietnam. Hike, snorkel, dive, sunbathe on the beautiful beaches, visit the turtle sites, and watch the squid boats at work. Visit its museum and sites, too: the cemetery of Vietnamese martyrs’ graves features seats built for their ghosts. You’ll want to stay at the fabulous Six Senses Con Dao.

Make it happen

The remote, secluded hideaway of Six Senses Con Dao is a luxury treat. The contemporary, glassy villas with private pools are right on the sugar-soft island sands; excellent food, the spa, and snorkelling are on tap.



Black Tomato’s 14-day Ultimate Vietnam: A luxury holiday from top to tail features fabulous beach time at the end of your trip at the exquisite Six Senses Con Dao

blacktomato.com