Holidaying with a toddler requires a recalibration of expectations. My husband and I returned from last year’s summer trip with ours more exhausted than when we’d set out. Keeping both parties happy or simply rested is tough. Especially if parents don’t want to entirely forgo more grown-up pursuits: fine dining, say, or skiing, maybe ten minutes in a spa or bar.

In Europe (where parenthood is not penalised with expensive nurseries) they’ve come up with a stylish solution: family-only hotels. And we’re not talking Center Parcs.

The one we’re in, Sonnwies in the South Tyrol, above the sleepy Italian village of Luson (and accessible on a new flight to Bolzano), manages to have the serenity of an Aman despite its high proportion of mini guests. There are candles (real, lit ones) on coffee tables, the glasses provided for children are the breakable kind (miraculously my 21-month-old daughter smashes only one during our stay) and the whole place smells divine. Not a whiff of bleach or worse.

Jenny Coad with her daughter, Lyra

Panoramic windows look out to the snow-capped mountains, there’s a wide terrace with comfy seats (perfect for Nordic-style buggy naps) and rooms (ski chalet-in-feel with lots of wood from South Tyrol) retain their restful feel despite being quickly strewn with Peppa Pig toys and other paraphernalia.

We’re in the Ferdi suite (the name of the hotel’s lederhosen-wearing horse mascot) and our daughter, Lyra, has her own little room with a farmyard-pattern duvet and cot-side wall lighting. This means we can sit by our fire and read after she’s gone to bed. The changing table is so discreet, I fail to find it until the last day and on the balcony are baby bear deckchairs — if only we could get her to sit still.

Advertisement

The kids’ club was refurbished at the end of last year and it is a place of wonder — particularly for parents. I only wish Lyra’s nursery at home were so inspiring. It’s vast, light-filled and equipped with a playhouse so tall I can stand up in it. There’s a thrillingly fast slide, a soft play area, tricycles, toy buggies from the chic Copenhagen-based brand Konges Slojd, a big wooden farm, relaxation areas with cushions by the windows and baskets swathed in muslins that hang from the ceiling so little ones can be bobbed to sleep.

Rare among many kids’ clubs, it takes under-threes in its baby room.

Ski slopes at the resort of Plose ALAMY

Don’t get me wrong — I don’t want to bung Lyra in there all day — but a couple of hours’ reprieve for a hike or a coffee in the sunshine is bliss and she loves being with other children.

This is, in fact, the greatest success of the holiday. Guests keep their restaurant table for the duration of the stay and we are lucky enough to be seated next to a German couple from Berlin with a generous approach to wine sharing and twins who are Lyra’s age (and equipped with iPads).

Sponsored

There are squeals of delight when Lyra spots her new friends at breakfast and my initial embarrassment at how well behaved they are in comparison is quickly diminished when they all realise how fun it is to run around the restaurant, hand in hand, a banana aloft.

And, no, I’m not worried about other diners. They are all too preoccupied with their own offspring to be concerned with mine. The waiters — who must surely all not only tolerate but like children — manage to dodge these rampaging targets and the space allows for racing. Of course we get up and down over and over again but it is about as relaxing as we can hope for with the added bonus of no tutting and no eye-rolls.

My only regret is that I have not packed to dress for dinner. The dress code only stipulates no robes or slippers but women are in heels, dresses, high-level athleisure and little girls are in net skirts and pretty shoes — sorry Lyra!

A room at Sonnwies GEORG ROSKE

It’s an expensive place to stay so the crowd and the clothing is high-end. Toddlers are in Veja trainers and outfits from the Amsterdam label Donsje (€49 for a pair of leggings — gasp).

Advertisement

But it’s friendly and there’s general camaraderie in having two-year-olds for bosses and discussing the sort of holidays that work. Our new friends from Berlin are horrified by our nursery costs — in the German capital it’s free. We bond over being at the parental coalface, the children bond over Paw Patrol.

The twins help Lyra to lose her antipathy towards water (it also helps that one of the pools has a cinema screen showing the film Cars). The pool area is as generous as the kids’ club with several shallow, warm options with slides, lights, toys. Steam rises off the outdoor pool, which guests swim into through sliding doors.

I even manage ten minutes in the adults-only spa which, as one fellow mother marvels, “is so quiet”. Here the forest sauna is fuelled by a cauldron-like kettle filled with pine — it has the feel of a votive offering.

The absolute joy of staying in a hotel and not self-catering accomodation is the break from the domestic rigmarole. What’s more, Lyra tries new flavours such as sauerkraut, lamb cutlet and rye bread. The menu is a fusion of Italian and Austrian cuisine — the most illustrative example being the sauerkraut-filled ravioli.

Rob and Lyra in the farmyard

Snacks are also taken care of. There’s a tea and coffee station plus a bowl of apples and pastries available all day, an ice-cream cart and soft-serve machine that operates from 12-9pm. I’m more excited about this than my daughter. Afternoon tea — apple strudel, cheesecake, cheese, hams — is equally hard to resist.

There is a small bar but it’s empty by 9pm so there’s mercifully no chance of Fomo (we don’t stay up for the 11pm sauna opening). When I pop down for a bedtime cuppa, one Italian woman is taking a tray of amaretto sours to her room — respect. I imagine it gets livelier in the school holidays when parents can leave older children unattended — or attended by whoever the poor soul is dressed up in the Ferdi pony suit.

Lots of people are here to ski. There’s a very gentle slope for the tinies — we sledge down this to mixed reaction — and a green slope for beginners. The main resort area is Plose, about a 30-minute bus ride (the hotel provides a shuttle service) with 26 miles of slopes and seven lifts. It’s a little far for us to comfortably leave Lyra (lots of couples here are skiing alone — one parent one day, the other the next — for this reason).

Advertisement

Cross-country skiing at Lusner Alm-Loipe is also within reach (about a 20-minute bus ride). My husband, Rob, decides to try this for the first time and it’s a lesson in humility. Bambi on ice skates is putting it mildly, he says. He’s bruised for days.

I, meanwhile, potato-print and pizza-make (both activities lasting a little over three minutes) and spend so long on the swing Lyra falls asleep.

Steam rises off the outdoor pool at Sonnwies LUCA GUADAGNINI/LINEEMATICHE

We go on morning hikes without her, taking summer trails — it’s so warm the snow has largely melted leaving slightly forlorn soft green mountainsides behind. One day we go up to Gargitt viewpoint, at 1,531m, and meet only two other couples on the way. It’s wonderfully peaceful.

We pram Lyra into Luson (prams and carriers are available to borrow free of charge at Sonnwies) when all the shops are shut for lunch and all the people elsewhere. There’s barely a sound except the church bells ringing out over the valley below. Back at Sonnwies, Lyra helps to feed the cows their 5pm hay.

I would have liked to have seen the Zaha Hadid-designed Messner Mountain Museum on the plateau at Kronplatz but day trips involving long drives (it’s about 1 hour 40 minutes) are not so tempting with a toddler (tickets £12; messner-mountain-museum.it/en/corones/museum).

The hotel doesn’t get everything right — dinner is served too late (from 6.30pm) for small people used to bedtime at 7pm. And the fine dining with small dishes for the adults drags the process out. We opt for the (very good) buffet for ease. Keen skiers might find the transfer too much hassle and the timings, for those leaving kids in the kids’ club, are not quite right. The club opens at 9am, right when the first shuttle leaves. The service is hit and miss (we request a kettle for our room a few times and it never materialises) and the ski information is poor.

It’s aimed mostly at the German and Italian market, so English is not widely spoken. The upside of that is the joy of learning (from one of the children’s library books) that jelly, in German, is Wackelpudding.

Advertisement

We spend four nights there and that feels about right for what’s on offer for a toddler — and for us. But, as a blueprint for what can be done to keep both parents and their offspring happy, it’s the way forward.

Jenny Coad was a guest of Sonnwies, which has half-board family rooms from £529 based on two adults and two children sharing (sonnwies.com). Fly to Innsbruck or Bolzano

Sign up for our Times Travel newsletter and follow us on Instagram and X