Pioneered in 1965, deep in Canada’s Bugaboo mountains by the Austrian émigré Hans Gmoser, heli-skiing has always had a certain cachet, blending adventure and luxury in equal measure. Where Gmoser’s first clients paid $275 for a week spent lurching into the skies in pairs aboard a modest Bell 47 chopper to ski one or two pristine descents, today’s heli-skiers pay closer to £15,000 a week to fly in twin-engine Bell 212s in clutches of 12 or more, racking up tens of thousands of vertical feet of descent each day (“vert” to those in the know).

Happily, neither bottomless funds nor exceptional ski skills are prerequisites to experiencing the joy of heli-skiing. The former are helpful should you develop an appetite for virgin descents in the exclusive company of your closest pals (as one heli-skiing pal says: “You can’t overdose on decadence, but you can become addicted to it”). But it’s possible to hail a chopper for a single drop on an alpine peak for about £170.

While not everyone will fancy being deposited atop a sheer Alaskan spine, no ski-lover will surely turn down the opportunity to be put down on a deserted mountain and do gentle turns down a snow bowl before retiring to a luxury lodge. Here are some of the most glorious places to try, if you have the mettle.

The Wiegele way

Mike Wiegele has run heli-ski trips in British Columbia since 1970, dropping riders on high glaciers, forested glades and over a thousand peaks that puncture the Cariboo, Monashee and Rocky Mountains.

Lodges in the Wiegele Heli Village

Wiegele claims a sprawling 1.5 million-acre tenure (an area to which an operator has exclusive access rights), meaning guests are more likely to spot a moose than another skier. There’s even a Wiegele Heli Village, where you will find the Blue River chalets with a fine dining restaurant, bar, shops, spa and the Guide Haus HQ.

Details Seven-day deluxe heli-ski packages (intermediate to advanced skiers) cost from $11,865pp, including full board, guiding, skis and personal safety equipment (wiegele.com)

Advertisement

Ski the Troll

Iceland’s mountainous Troll peninsula ELEVEN EXPERIENCE

It’s hard to get more off-grid than the Fljot Valley, on northern Iceland’s mountainous Troll peninsula. Hunkered in this monochrome landscape lies an unlikely heli-ski lodge — a grass-roofed converted sheep farm. Despite its pastoral roots, the 12-bedroom Deplar Farm is regularly cited as one of the best luxury wilderness hotels in the world, with trappings such as two helipads and plenty of snow toys, including custom Sno-Cats and a fleet of snowmobiles.

ELEVEN EXPERIENCE

Thanks to the Arctic midnight sun, guests can heli-ski late into the night, with the season here running from late March to early June.

Details Exclusive occupancy of Deplar Farm for 12 guests costs from $51,388 per night, including full board with drinks, guided heli-skiing with equipment and other activities, including snowmobiling and horse riding (elevenexperience.com)

Penguins and powder

The 252ft expedition superyacht La Datcha

One for the “been there, skied that” crowd, skiing Patagonia’s Chilean fjords from the comfort of a 252ft expedition superyacht ticks a lot of boxes. Spanning six decks and holding everything from two B3 Squirrel helicopters and a pair of snowmobiles, to a submersible and dive decompression chamber, La Datcha is the ultimate base camp for 12 pampered adventurers.

One for the “been there, skied that” crowd

This year La Datcha will explore the glaciers, volcanos, penguin-dotted ice fields, fjords and peaks of Patagonia, offering a unique opportunity to ski some of the world’s most untamed landscapes.

Details A week’s private charter of the six-suite La Datcha costs from $740,000, excluding food, drinks and heli-skiing (ladatcha.com)

Go Big(horn) or go home

Guest at the Bighorn Revelstoke mountain resort in Canada

Sponsored

The pioneer of fully serviced chalets in North America, Bighorn is set in the Revelstoke Mountain Resort, which combines big mountain resort skiing with heli-skiing and cat-skiing. The sumptuous eight-bedroom lodge has a helipad in its garden, placing the sprawling tenures of three leading heli-ski operators almost literally on the doorstep. Guests choosing to pass on the heli-skiing can explore the expansive pistes and back-country terrain of the resort of “Revy”, which claims North America’s greatest vertical drop (5,620ft), go cross-country skiing or watch the world’s best riders compete in big mountain competitions like the Yeti Natural Selection Tour, in which snowboarders compete on heli-ski terrain, as well as in the main resort.

Details A week’s chalet catering at Bighorn costs from CAD$90,000 plus tax, including drinks and in-resort chauffeur. Six days of heli-skiing for six guests costs from CAD$146,000 plus tax (bighornrevelstoke.com)

Tommy’s Taxis

Tordrillo Mountain Lodge in Alaska

Alaska — a vast area of of razor-sharp spines, sheer couloirs and vertical descents of up to 6,000ft — is quite literally the pinnacle of skiing. And Tordrillo Mountain Lodge (TML to regulars) is the Alaska go-to. Founded in 2006 by the Olympic gold medallist and guide Tommy Moe and the Alaska heli-ski pioneer Mike Overcast, TML is only accessible by a ski plane that lands on the frozen Lake Judd.

The lodge’s choppers, dubbed “Tommy’s Taxis”, claim exclusive access to over 1.2 million acres of the heavily glaciated Alaska Range, set in the mighty shadow of Denali (Mount McKinley), North America’s highest peak.

Details A week’s winter heli-skiing at TML costs from $18,000, including half-board, one night’s accommodation in Anchorage before your trip, seven days of guided heli-sking with all equipment, and return flights between Anchorage and TML (tordrillomountainlodge.com)

Bella Coola sailing

The MV Cascadia in Bella Coola in Canada ERIC BERGER PHOTOGRAPHY, ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

One of the most iconic names in heli-skiing, Bella Coola is a spectacular river valley set within British Columbia’s Nuxalk region, named after its original First Nation community settlers. Home to some of Canada’s wildest heli-skiing terrain, it is a place of vast glaciers, towering couloirs and virgin descents waiting to be named by the first skiers to tackle them.

Skiing towards the ocean in Bella Coola ERIC BERGER PHOTOGRAPHY, ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

Advertisement

Guests who want to temper Nuxalk’s gnarliness with ultra-luxe comfort can make the 138ft private yacht MV Cascadia a floating base. With eight double cabins, decktop hot tubs and a helipad, MV Cascadia blends exhilarating summit-to-sea descents with tranquil river life.

Details Five-night heli-ski packages on MV Cascadia cost from CAD$252,010 plus tax for eight guests, including full board with drinks, 14 hours’ flying time, guided heli-skiing with skis and safety equipment, massages and return flights between Vancouver and Bella Coola (mabeyski.com)

Snow, sushi and snorkels

Japan is increasingly becoming a popular destination for alpine thrill-seekers

The abundance of snow in Japan, and particularly its northernmost island Hokkaido, has made it such a cult place for heli-skiing that it has developed its own hashtag vernacular — such as #Japow. Snow here is so abundant, dry and fluffy that carving between birch trees on skis here is likened to floating through cold smoke. Extra treats also include delicious local food, traditional onsen (hot springs), cherry blossoms and snow monkeys. Add helicopter access to Mount Shiribetsu, a dormant volcano near the resorts of Niseko and Rusutsu, for pure untracked powder bliss.

Details A guided heli-skiing day on Shiribetsu costs from 167,273 yen plus tax per person, including personal safety equipment, lunch and return transport from Niseko or Rusutsu (hokkaidobackcountryclub.com)

White gold in Greenland

Greenland offers some of the world’s most imposing glaciated islands and beautiful frozen fjords

This heli-skiing trip to the east coast of Greenland delivers genuine expedition-style adventure rather than the more indulgent experiences offered by many operators. Staying in simple yet comfortable digs in a traditional Greenlandic settlement, guests are immersed in the local Inuit culture and daily life in this imposing world of glaciated islands, soaring icebergs and frozen fjords.

The almost infinite amount of largely unexplored ski terrain includes first descents and scenic summit-to-shore runs, with polar bear and northern lights sightings.

Details The Greenland Explorer package costs from €13,300pp, including full board, six days of guided heli-skiing, skis and personal safety equipment (eaheliskiing.com)

La Dolce Vita

Heli-skiing in Alagna in the Italian Alps

For those looking to dip a toe in the world of heli-skiing, head to the charming village of Alagna in Italy’s mountainous Piedmont region. Heli-skiing in Europe (which is heavily restricted due to environmental concerns) is very different to that in North America, typically involving only one or two heli drops a day. However, quality makes up for quantity, with eye-popping views and long, challenging descents dotted with cosy mountain huts. Some 30 heli drop points can be accessed from Alagna alone, opening up routes on the Weisshorn, Alphubel and Matterhorn with the option to finish up with après in Zermatt.

Details The Alagna Heli-Intro trip costs from £2,250pp, including four nights’ B&B, four days of guided skiing and lift passes, two heli drops, skis and safety equipment, and private resort transfers (heliski.co.uk)

Himalayan highs

As far as bragging rights go, heli-skiing the Himalayas is up there. Simply being amongst the 21,325ft giants of India’s Himachal Pradesh region is a privilege — never mind skiing on their flanks. Once dropped on a snowy perch some 16,500ft above sea level, skiers enjoy glorious descents that lead down steep powder bowls and rolling ridge lines to pass through birch glades into dense cedar forest. Off the hill, there’s the vibrant town of Manali in the Kullu valley to explore, aptly known as the “Valley of the Gods”.

Details The seven-night Himalayan Exclusive tour costs from €91,500pp, accommodation, six possible days of guided heli-skiing, personal safety equipment, helicopter and ground transfers between Delhi and Manali (eaheliskiing.com)