‘There’s something going on,” says Jim Moore, the creative director at large for American GQ and a consultant for international fashion brands. We’re in Milan for the men’s autumn/winter 2024-25 fashion shows and Jim has news. “I was doing a casting and all the young guys, the models, were wearing proper tailored overcoats and hard-soled shoes. They weren’t wearing trainers any more. They looked smart.”

Domenico Dolce of Dolce & Gabbana agrees that times are changing. “There is a shift,” he explains, “and we are now looking at expertly tailored pieces for a new generation.” Stefano Gabbana adds, “When we dress young bands, we are now being asked for suits. They are not used to seeing themselves dressed like that. When they put on our suits and look in the mirror, they like what they see.” Dolce says, “I was born a tailor and I will die a tailor. And there will probably be a sartorial coffin.”

Dolce & Gabanna’s ready to wear show

The message from the Italian duo is clear: we should embrace a return to menswear classics and focus on quality and elegance. Hence their show featured tailored jackets and trousers almost exclusively in black. It was a return to the type of look that made them successful in the first place, an idealised version of what a Sicilian may wear to church on a Sunday or an aristocrat could don for a party in a dilapidated palazzo.

The Zegna autumn/winter 2024-25 show

That’s not to say that this is simply a reverse gear. Dolce is clear that the cuts, fabrics and styling have evolved. There were shorter lengths of jacket and some “engineered” details on show. Chief among the progression has been an embracing of comfort. The new tailoring is relaxed to suit a customer who has become accustomed to sportswear. But it still makes him look smart, or “sleek”, which was the title of Dolce & Gabbana’s collection. “A great jacket is all you need,” Dolce says. “With that, even if your shirt and trousers aren’t the best you’ll look good.”

Giorgio Armani has been obsessed with creating the perfect jacket and suit ever since he started his label and set about deconstructing tailoring to make it more comfortable. “It has to be about a beautiful suit, a beautiful jacket, a beautiful fabric and colour, and the combination of these, nothing more, otherwise it becomes a meaningless carnival,” he explains.

Advertisement

The Zegna Fall/Winter 2024-2025 show

Armani is unusual in that he never deviates from his aesthetic. But then he is a designer whose own name is still above the door, which means he is more able than an employed creative director to resist the gravitational pull of trends. That can be a powerful force and lead to pendulum swings of the sort we saw a couple of years back, and which on the evidence of Milan we are now leaving behind: when sportswear, its core pieces (trainers, hoodies, sweatshirts and the like) and attendant love of logos made it feel like tailoring was in danger of becoming obsolete. It was not only the death of the tie that was on the agenda, but of tailoring itself. What a difference a few seasons make.

The Giorgio Armani show was full of the type of elegant, simple, body-conscious jackets and suits in wool and velvet, some with lapels, some without, that look chic but feel unrestrictive. “I like a jacket to feel like you are wearing a cardigan,” the designer explains.

Brunello Cucinelli

Brunello Cucinelli had both single and one-and-a-half-breasted (as he likes to call his slim double-breasted style) jackets and suits in super-luxurious fabrics, with which the formality is relaxed by the softest construction and styling, with knitwear and denim shirts. “I have always believed in the tailored jacket and suit. I have never doubted them,” he says. “They are the foundation of the man’s wardrobe.”

Gucci previewed a pared-back aesthetic

Gucci’s new era under the creative director Sabato de Sarno sees the sort of pared-back tailoring that is a far cry from the eccentric decorative dressing-up box served up by his predecessor, Alessandro Michele.

Sponsored

Corneliani and Canali, two Italian brands known for business attire, are now exploring the sort of jackets that don’t demand a shirt and tie, and are soft enough to bundle into the overhead locker on a flight and then unfold on arrival for a genuinely smart but simultaneously casual appearance.

Designer Massimo Alba

But it’s not just about comfort. Dressed in a white T-shirt, oatmeal knitted cardigan and washed black wool suit with the collar turned up, Massimo Alba explains, “The suit is something romantic now, not a business armour or shield.” Alba, you may remember, is the man who put 007 in a cotton baby corduroy suit for the opening Italian sequence of No Time To Die. “James Bond became sentimental in that film; his suit no longer a uniform.”

Massimo Alba dressed James Bond in a soft suit for the opening sequence of No Time To Die

And if suits are no longer formal, they are also not always conventionally recognisable. At Zegna, Alessandro Sartori has for a while been promoting the idea that the tailoring skills that a firm may have developed over decades can be applied to a different, contemporary concept of jacket and trouser pairing. Sampha, one of the celebrities who attended the Zegna show, epitomised this with a collarless work jacket and matching trousers in a butter-tone wool twill, while on the catwalk there was a lapel-less leather jacket in the same colour combined with fabric trousers in the identical hue.

Sampha’s style at the Zegna show epitomised this new casual yet sleek elegance

Perhaps we should have guessed something was up when we received our invites for Prada (in the event there were suits here too, and nice oversized thick single-breasted jackets that can function as coat substitutes). Significantly, the invitation for the show included the gift of a tie. It felt like a statement of intent. We just needed the shirt and suit to match.