It’s hard to imagine anything more terrifying. As Alaska Airlines’ Flight 1282 reached 16,000ft en route from Portland, Oregon, to Ontario, California, in January the left rear “door plug” — a panel that fills an unused emergency exit — blew out. The cabin depressurised, almost ripping the cockpit door off its hinges. Seat headrests and mobile phones were sucked through the gaping hole in the fuselage and the co-pilot’s headset was torn off.

As the 171 passengers and 6 crew on board the Boeing 737 Max 9 grabbed their oxygen masks, many began to say what they thought would be their final prayers. But thanks to the pilots, who managed to make an emergency call to air traffic control despite the deafening noise and extreme cold, the plane returned safely to Portland.

The accident has reignited the debate around the safety of Boeing’s short-haul jets. It is only four years since Boeing’s Max 8 jets were grounded following two crashes. Some 189 people died when a Lion Air 737 Max nose-dived into the Java Sea after taking off from Jakarta in October 2018. Five months later, 157 were killed when an Ethiopian Airlines 737 Max fell to the ground almost vertically minutes after take-off from Addis Ababa.

Both disasters were caused by a catastrophic combination of cost-cutting in hardware and a failure to inform pilots about vital changes to software. The Max 8 was finally cleared to fly again in 2020, after extra flight data sensors were installed on the fuselage, critical software rewritten and pilots retrained. Steve Dickson, then the chief of America’s aviation regulator, the Federal Aviation Administration, said: “The aircraft is safe. I’d put my family on it.”

The engine of a grounded Lion Air Boeing 737 Max 8 aircraft DIMAS ARDIAN/BLOOMBERG VIA GETTY IMAGES

Those words look hollow after the Alaska Airlines accident involving a slightly longer version of the Max 8 (the Max comes in four sizes with models named Max 7 to Max 10). Many passengers are now asking: is it safe to board a Boeing short-haul jet? Are they right to worry?

Advertisement

First things first. Flying is incredibly safe. On average, a traveller would need to board a flight every day for 25,214 years to experience a fatal accident, according to the latest International Air Transport Association (Iata) statistics on “hull losses”, the industry’s euphemism for crashes. What’s more, the Boeing 737, of which the Max models are variants, has a strong safety record. Launched in 1967, it is the world’s most successful aircraft — with about 10,000 built, 20 billion passenger journeys made, and only a handful of accidents.

• Which airlines use Boeing 737 Max planes and how dangerous are they?

The trouble is, one crash is one too many in the mind of travellers. What’s more, the Alaska Airlines accident shows that Boeing’s culture of cost-cutting and low standards — responsible for the Lion Air and Ethiopian crashes — endures. The interim report into the recent accident indicates that the plane rolled off Boeing’s factory floor without the four crucial bolts needed to hold the door plug in place.

How should travellers react? Most of us will do nothing. We book tickets on airline and ticket price, not aircraft type. That’s definitely the right thing to do when it comes to the Max 9. There are only 215 Max 9s in service globally and no major airlines operating from the UK or Ireland use the aircraft. The only carriers with routes serving the UK are Icelandair and Turkish Airlines.

Sponsored

The good news for British travellers is that British Airways has no Boeing short-haul jets at all. It operates an all Airbus fleet from the small A319 to the large A321. EasyJet is all Airbus too.

Ryanair operates an all-Boeing fleet with more than five hundred 737 aircraft, of which 136 are Max 8s, with 74 more Max 8s on order. The airline has also ordered 300 Max 10s, the newest 737 Max variant. Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s group CEO — a man not shy about calling out problems in the aviation industry — points out that the Max 8 has flown without any serious incidents worldwide since it was recertified.

• How Wall Street greed led to Boeing’s 737 Max crisis

Would I get on a Boeing Max jet? I’ve travelled on the Max 8 in the US, Europe and Mexico — and, as you can tell, I’m still here. I’d get on one again. But if you don’t fancy it, you will have plenty of alternatives. When you book your ticket look on the website for the prefix A on the aircraft type for Airbus (B is for Boeing). Geeky websites, such as planespotters.net, will give you full details of an airline’s fleet.

The new technology that could solve turbulence forever

Advertisement

If you are concerned about either the newness — or age — of a jet before you get on it, note down the tailfin number at the airport and cross check it on the database on flightradar24.com, which will list its service history. But be warned, if you decide not to board, the airline will be unlikely to offer you a refund or transfer you to another flight on another aircraft type, especially if they have to offload your luggage, delaying departure.

My advice? Book as normal, sit back, relax and enjoy the flight.

Sign up for our Times Travel newsletter and follow us on Instagram and X