Like all companies Ferrari needs to grow constantly. This is tricky when your core product is a luxury sports car. You don’t want the roads flooded with Ferraris that diminish the desirability of your brand. Ferrari has always been good at this, and its founder Enzo’s maxim of producing one car fewer than what the market demands has, more or less, been the plan it has stuck with.

So, how does it increase sales and volume without the badge becoming ubiquitous? Well, Ferrari also happens to be quite good at racing cars. It is the only manufacturer to have raced in every season of the Formula One World Championship since its inception in 1950, but that is the tip of the iceberg. All over the world customers race in modified, track-only versions of its sports cars in the Ferrari Challenge Series, its single-marque championship.

Yet the one event Ferrari has ignored for a few years — 50 to be precise — is the pinnacle of endurance racing, the 24 Hours of Le Mans. There have been some privateer entries over the years, but the factory has never built a car to take on the race’s top tier since 1973. That all changed last year in the centenary Le Mans. Ferrari entered two cars in the top Hypercar class and, in a Hollywood ending, it claimed victory with the 499P.

The No 51 Ferrari 499P passing the celebrating team after winning the centenary 24 Hours of Le Mans in France in June 2023 CLIVE ROSE/GETTY IMAGES

That brings us to its latest model, the 499P Modificata. Ferrari is now offering a slightly modified, but essentially the same, race-winning car to the public in a move that has surprised many. Unsurprisingly it has a significant price tag of £4.4 million plus tax. It is actually faster than the Le Mans winner as it is unbound by race regulations that limit the power.

The only catch is that you can’t drive it on the road, and you can’t race it.

Advertisement

So what do you do with possibly the ultimate toy for anyone who loves cars and motorsport? Ferrari has an answer for that. They have been running their Corse Clienti programme for many years. This gives a small group of clients the chance to buy Formula One cars that have been raced over the years. Ferrari runs and maintains these machines and, each year, they transport them to some of the most iconic tracks around the world, such as Laguna Seca and Suzuka, for the owners to show up and essentially play with their vehicles. The 499P Modificata will fall into this system in its own sportscar class, known as Sport Prototipi Clienti.

Behind the wheel the 499P Modificata will be no trinket. It is the highest-performance closed-wheel car Ferrari has produced outside of racing. The car will be quicker than some of the F1 cars it will share the track with, so you will need a degree of bravery alongside the chequebook to extract the maximum from this car.

For added fun, Ferrari has installed a “push to pass” button on the steering wheel, which unleashes a huge 161bhp of power for a total of 858bhp, but that fun will only last for seven seconds. One of the few compromises over the factory racer is the ability to have a slightly wider seat with a little easier entry and exit. Sensible, given that the typical buyer may not be on the same extreme diet as a professional racing driver.

Ferrari is consistently evolving, but its decision to offer a current Le Mans-winning car to the (very rich) general public is quite incredible. A lucky few can move beyond video games and race simulators … or even purchase classic race-winning cars. Fewer still will now be able to jump into a state-of-the-art hypercar that has recently taken the top step of the podium at the world’s greatest sports car event and spend their free time thrashing it around the most famous racetracks on the planet.

Sponsored

So how does Ferrari grow while still staying aspirational? Go to Le Mans, win Le Mans and then sell the race-winning car to the public for £4.4 million a piece. Not a bad business plan.