What men want in a house, one might reasonably say, has in the past not been of tremendous importance. That’s because, feigning a lack of interest in matters from parquet to passementerie, the “head of the house” has traditionally left the interiors to be decided by his household chief executive.

This statement, I realise, is not exactly in keeping with fourth-wave feminism. But it is, as the kids say, fact. Or it was. And then working from home happened and captains of industry startedto have opinions on shadow gaps and tie-backs. Suddenly, designers say, a whole range of specific new demands came flooding in. While initially these were confined to matters of comfort and quality (and comments on cushion count), some of the recent requirements have been pretty eccentric, says Oliver Deadman, the head of design at Clive Christian Furniture. The most outlandish, he says, was from a man in Edinburgh who wanted a double walk-in wardrobe with a bar in his townhouse.

“Not only did he fancy a tipple while dressing, but he wanted integrated Sub Zero & Wolf warming drawers within the joinery so that his clothes would be at a perfect temperature when he got dressed each morning.”

• Is this the coolest new interior design website?

• Why I’m giving up on following interior design trends

• Interior design: small home updates that make a big impact

And he wasn’t leaving the details of his underwear-warmers to chance; the customer specified similar set-ups in several (of his) homes. “Something I find male clients have in common is decision fatigue,” Deadman says. “They like to avoid it. Steve Jobs-style, they will often replicate entire rooms, tech and M&E [mechanical and electrical features] across houses.”

Advertisement

For those who have a car (or three) that they want to view at any and all times, inspiration may come from the new home of the rapper Future, who has bought a Bentley Residences apartment in Miami. The USP of his luxury unit is a glass car lift — called a Dezervator, named after the property’s developer, Gil Dezer — that transports residents’ vehicles up to their apartments so they can look on them fondly when, presumably, there is nothing to watch on TV. Chaps who fancy a taste of the Bentley lifestyle without going full Future can shop from the marque’s latest furniture collection, which includes a supersized bed with luxurious curves that echo the cars’ interiors. The architect Richard Parr, who has offices in London and the Cotswolds, reports an increased interest among his clients in rooms designed for bicycles. He traces the trend to lockdowns, when people decamped to the country and it became crucial that they had somewhere to stow their trophy bikes. “Think of the bike studio as the modern man’s gun or billiard room,” he says. “Long gone are the days where bikes were housed in the garage. Now they require special spaces.”

The aesthetic his clients prefer for their bicycle lairs is more Batcave than bucolic escapism, he says. “Think of them as industrial escapist design retreats; powerful and dark spaces that double up for online exercise.”

But what most men want, says the antiques dealer Benedict Foley, is a house filled with ripping yarns. Although Foley’s purchases tend not to be gender-specific (“I hope they appeal to the intellect more than the genitalia”), he finds that male clients are likely “to want something that has a story to tell”. One such “mantique” that he bought for a tech entrepreneur was a set of Victorian prints depicting the expedition of HMS Erebus and HMS Terror, which left England in 1845 in search of the Northwest Passage.

“It was a romantic high-Victorian scene of explorers going into the unknown, in the moonlight, about to disappear for ever,” Foley says. “The buyer is not the sort of person who would fall head over heels for 19th-century prints, but the quirky subject and the story clinched it.”

Sponsored

The main gender divide, according Luke McLaren, an architect whose client base is three-quarters male, is an entrenched cultural disagreement over stuff. Given the choice, he says, men would prefer much less of it. “Our architecture has been described to us many times as masculine, austere, reductive and stripped back. Men tend to be more on board with a removal of anything not essential.” McLaren’s menu of materials is often pared back to concrete, steel, timber and natural renders, and his house rules appear to be: no clutter and no curtains. In the Oxfordshire home the firm finished recently for Jeremy Offer, the head of design for Volvo, there is not a window-dressing to be seen. “We wanted to create a lovely, warm, welcoming, calm house, but also a place where a lot of the domestic visual cues you might typically see in a house are removed,” McLaren says.

Windows, watch your backs: if men gain ascendancy in interiors, it could be curtains for the curtain.

clivechristianfurniture.com; luxurylivinggroup.com; bentleyresidences.com; richardparr.com; benedictfoley.com; mclarenexcell.com