Spare a thought for Marcus Licinius Crassus. All he wanted to do was rule the known world, but he ended up dead in the desert with molten gold poured down his throat. It was an inauspicious end for the richest man in Rome as it began to transition from republic to empire, and one that may well have been apocryphal. Nonetheless, execution by gold was a very real thing in the past, not only in ancient Rome but during the Spanish conquest of the Americas. In these cases, the punishment was usually used ironically — as a fitting end for individuals considered to be full of greed. That’s right, Game of Thrones and, for that matter, Goldfinger, have nothing on real-life history. However, gold has also been used for much more benign reasons. From facemasks to tinctures, for millennia it has been a key component in beauty treatments.

This article contains affiliate links that can earn us revenue

Sean Connery and Shirley Eaton on the set of Goldfinger GETTY

Cleopatra is reputed to have slept wearing a facemask made from gold leaf. Although much about the legendary Egyptian queen has been mythologised, including her beauty regime, ancient Egyptians employed a range of natural products that are popular beauty ingredients today. Face treatments incorporating milk and honey took advantage of both the lactic acid in milk (as an AHA, lactic acid is an exfoliating agent) and the soothing, antibacterial properties of honey. Coconut oil was used as a hair and scalp treatment and aloe vera was prized for its anti-inflammatory properties. If Cleopatra did use a forerunner of Chantecaille’s Gold Recovery Mask as a nightly beauty aid, then she was following in the footsteps of other ancient civilisations.

John Collier’s The Death of Cleopatra, 1890 ALAMY

As far back as two millennia BC, gold was used in China to counteract a variety of skin complaints, as well as in surgical interventions. One bencao (a materia medica or history of pharmacy) stated that gold powder was useful for treating boils. Another suggested the same treatment for skin ulcers. Gold has also been used in ayurvedic medicine for centuries to treat conditions including diabetes and rheumatoid arthritis, usually in the form of swarna bhasma (gold ash or gold powder). In ancient Rome, gold was used to combat afflictions both physical and spiritual. In his Natural History, the natural philosopher Pliny the Elder stated that gold was not only a useful remedy for warts but also “to render any malpractices of sorcery comparatively innocuous”.

Chrysotherapy (the use of gold compounds in medicine) can today be an effective treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis, as well as the skin condition psoriasis itself and hives. The adoption of gold as a medicinal and skincare ingredient in ancient times was based on the idea that it was an immortal element. As Pliny the Elder explained, “Gold is the only substance in nature that suffers no loss from the action of fire, and passes unscathed through conflagrations and the flames of the funeral pile.” Therefore, the argument went, its use would transfer some of that longevity to the user. Scientifically speaking, however, in the case of rheumatoid arthritis treatment, the gold compound employed inhibits a particular type of enzyme that contributes to the symptoms of the disease. This antioxidant property is also what makes gold an effective ingredient in topical skincare. Antioxidants are a cornerstone of a good anti-ageing skincare routine, helping to protect skin cells from damage and ageing by countering free radicals (reactive, unstable molecules). More generally, gold and gold compounds have antibacterial and anti-inflammatory benefits. However, although gold compounds consumed medicinally can be effective, there is a high risk of toxicity.

Advertisement

Diane de Poitiers, the mistress of King Henry II and lover of gold ALAMY

Indeed, 15 centuries after Cleopatra may have gone to sleep under a thin layer of gold leaf, another legendary beauty would turn to gold treatments with fatal results. Diane de Poitiers was a courtier in early 16th-century France and the highly influential mistress of King Henry II, overshadowing his wife, Catherine de Medici, during the king’s lifetime. Perhaps it was because Henry was 19 years younger than her that she turned to beauty elixirs. However, he was completely devoted to her — he even died from injuries sustained in a joust at which he was wearing her colours and not those of his wife. More likely, therefore, de Poitiers used gold simply because such tonics were fashionable at the time.

Like many other French nobles, de Poitier drank a concoction of gold chloride mixed with diethyl ether on a daily basis in an attempt to maintain her looks. It was effective but deadly. A 16th-century courtier and writer known as Brantôme reported meeting an older de Poitiers and described her as “as fresh and as pleasant as she had been at thirty … It is said that every morning she used some drinks made up of drinkable gold.” The production of drinkable gold was associated with the desire for eternal beauty and youth. “It’s an universall fortification for all Complexions, and Ages, against all sorts and degrees of Pestilentiall and Contagious infections, both preventing before their possession, and extirpating of them after it,” explained the alchemist and herbalist Nicholas Culpeper in the introduction to a tract on the subject published after his death in 1654. Many different recipes for aurum potabile existed. In 1526, the Coelum Philosophorum, a book by Philipp Ulstad, a German doctor interested in distillation, contained 21 different versions of aurum potabile, including drinkable gold with Greek wine or with gems.

Archaeologists remove the bones of Diane de Poitiers GETTY IMAGES

De Poitier’s bones were discovered in 2008 during an archaeological dig at her final resting place, Anet, about 50 miles west of Paris (as a symbol of monarchy, de Poitiers’s remains had been thrown into a mass grave during the French Revolution). Chemical analysis on the remains, specifically a sample of her hair, revealed a level of gold that suggested chronic gold intoxication, a form of heavy metal poisoning. This would have affected her kidneys and liver, leading, scientists have argued, to her death at the age of 66. Rather than being the bringer of eternal youth and ensuring a long life, as promised by alchemists, her aurum potabile had done quite the opposite.

By contrast, today’s golden beauty treatments are topical rather than ingested, and therefore safe to use. These mainly contain colloidal gold or gold nanoparticles, the minute size of which allows them to easily penetrate the skin, allowing the user to benefit from the anti-ageing properties of gold which have been celebrated for centuries.

Five ways to incorporate gold into your beauty regime

Clé de Peau Beauté Precious Gold Vitality Mask

Sponsored

cledepeau-beaute.com

24k gold infusion combined with amino acids and botanicals supercharge this mask’s ability to plump and firm.

Peter Thomas Roth 24K Gold Mask

peterthomasroth.com

Used two to three times a week, this mask leaves skin glowing.

Anne Semonin Firming & Lifting Serum with Pure Gold 24K

Advertisement

annesemonin.com

Particles of yellow, white or rose gold boost this serum’s glow-inducing power.

Rodial Bee Venom and Placenta 24 Carat Gold Ultimate Crème

rodial.com

The brand’s most luxurious cream includes nanopeptides encased in 24k gold.

111Skin Rose Gold Brightening Facial Treatment Mask

111skin.com

This gel sheet mask packs a hydrating and anti-ageing punch.