Turns out you don’t have to die to go to heaven, you just have to go to the Six Senses Hotel in Zighy Bay. Once there, get yourself to the massage pavilion on the beach, ask for Dema, lie down on the bed and, as the three layers of fine linen curtains waft in the breeze and the only sound is the waves gently lapping the shore, you will realise that life will never get better than this.

Zighy Bay, on the northernmost tip of Oman, is entirely encircled by the Al Hajar mountains in a protective hug. They’re a constant, powerful reminder of how cut off you are from reality. The resort is built to vanish into the landscape — very low rise, entirely of local stone, wood and woven palm, with 5,000 trees from palms to henna and neem. This is seriously quiet luxury, not the place for your Pucci kaftan or a fluorescent manicure. In fact, on arrival the immensely charming general manager, Diletta Guarino, tells you to take off your shoes and not put them back on till you go home. It is easy to comply.

The resort is built entirely of local stone, wood and woven palm

It’s a small resort, with just 82 rooms (the fanciest being a four-bedroom villa with its own bar, game room, pool table and large swimming pool), a beautiful organic-produce garden and working farm. The exceptional food spans Arabic, Asian and western cuisine, and restaurants run from a beach bar to a Japanese-influenced restaurant high up on the mountain with a ten-course tasting menu. Dramatic though that is, breakfast is also a real standout; there’s the egg station including shakshouka (eggs poached in a sauce of tomatoes, olive oil, peppers, onion, and garlic), Arabic manakish (warm folded flatbread topped with herbs, meat, fish or cheese), mezze such as hummus and labneh, falafel and ful medames (a delicious fava bean stew). There’s also an eye-popping juice station with fresh ready-mixed juices or those you can mix yourself including cinnamon, okra, beetroot and cloves.

There is an international flavour to the menus, including traditional mezze

The beach offers half a mile of inviting white sand

The place is popular with Brits. Many return year after year, not least because it’s very child-friendly. Although if you visit during term time it feels completely grown up. The resort takes its “experience” remit very seriously and, alongside outdoor cinema, tennis, archery and the usual watersports there’s also the opportunity to paraglide from the top of the mountain, landing gently on the powder-fine beach.

At half a mile long, the beach is so huge that even when the hotel is at full capacity it still feels almost empty. It makes other hotel pools and beaches feel as crowded and unpleasant as the Northern line in rush hour. Whereas at Zighy Bay there’s just the almost unbelievable feeling of proper icing-sugar sand and the calm sea, which hits the beach with a courteous velocity that wouldn’t even knock over a toddler.

Advertisement

And just when you didn’t think it was possible to slow down any more … prepare to progress at a glacial pace. Guests can charter the resort owner’s just-renovated 90ft traditional wooden dhow and time almost stands still.

Guests can charter the resort owner’s 90ft traditional wooden dhow

Called Dhahab, which means gold in Arabic, the dhow can be taken for day trips or overnight. It sleeps six, is very simple but has everything you could need, including a surprisingly large bath in the master suite (there’s a shower too) and two twin cabins. It’s tremendously chic, the well-stuffed sunloungers and cushions are all cream and buff — no marble or gold plate here. There’s a large open-air kitchen right in the middle of the main deck; unlike the cramped cells in the bellies of most yachts, this galley takes centre stage. The chef will travel from the hotel with you so you can have lunch or dinner in a little bay, perhaps mezze and some salads from their farm with watermelon or fresh seared tuna. And for pudding some almost psychedelically ripe and lip-smacking fruit, dates and sorbet.

It makes other hotel pools and beaches feel almost crowded

You can make your way slowly along the coastline, exploring fjords and entirely cut-off fishing villages, feeling your heartbeat slow and your blood pressure normalise. You can waterski, kayak, snorkel and scuba (the Musandam peninsula is known for some of the best dive sites in the world), or try your hand at traditional line fishing for red snapper and even barracuda. Or relax even further, if that’s possible, with a massage on deck.

The spa entrance

The organic garden

The spa at Zighy Bay is as rustic as the rest of the resort. No clinical marble catacombs here — the eleven treatment rooms and two hammams all have stone floors, rough plaster walls, exposed beams with bamboo and woven rush ceilings. You can even make your own body scrub in the organic garden with ingredients such as lavender, tangerine dust, cumin, rosemary, ginger powder, sesame seeds and juniper berries that you pound using a pestle and mortar.

Sponsored

There are personalised wellness programmes, over as many nights as you wish, including those focusing on sleep, weight loss, immunity, Love Your Heart (a day dedicated to letting go of old baggage and finding greater zest) and Mind Your Brain (focused on improving the state of your brain and how it works). In addition to the normal fare, the spa menu includes ayurvedic treatments, yoga nidra and a constantly evolving series of activities such as sound baths. Or you could just settle down to one of their massages, perhaps a traditional hammam, which will leave you squeaky clean, soft as a cotton ball and passionately unwilling to return to reality.

There are eleven treatment rooms and two hammams

Zighy Bay is bookable through Scott Dunn, the travel agent voted Condé Nast Traveller’s Top Travel Specialists 11 years in a row. Specialising in luxury travel and extraordinary experiences, over the past 35 years Scott Dunn has sent guests to a tented camp on the beach miles from anywhere, down a river on a converted rice barge, for a dinner at an Everest summitter’s house, arranged lessons in spear-throwing with a Masai warrior and even organised a bagpiper to play in the new year.

Scott Dunn offers seven nights at Six Senses Zighy Bay, Oman, from £7,500 based on a couple sharing on a half-board basis, including return flights from London and private transfers; scottdunn.com (020 3627 9878)