If you saw the epic TV series Vikings, you will know about Bjorn Ironside. Played by Alexander Ludwig, he was a legendary Norseman and, in Ludwig’s portrayal, was all towering blondness and brooding athleticism.

Had the Canadian actor been indisposed, it is not hard to imagine Erling Braut Haaland, the Norwegian Manchester City striker, in the role. He has the hair. And the physique. And an impressive Nordic bluffness. On the day I first saw him play — a 3-1 victory over Brighton last season in which he scored twice, once from the penalty spot — he shook off a tackle on the way to putting the ball in the back of the net with such indifference that you would not want to face him in battle.

At only 23, Haaland is quite the phenomenon. Tall but well built, fast, skilful and, perhaps above all, determined, he terrifies defenders and, since joining Manchester City from Borussia Dortmund in the German Bundesliga in 2022 (for £51 million), seems to be able to score with a regularity that makes statisticians’ minds boggle.

Haaland playing against Newcastle United this August GETTY IMAGES

Last season, his first in the Premier League, he set a single-season goal-scoring record for the division — 36 in just 35 appearances — and was naturally awarded the Golden Boot. He was also the first player to be named both young player of the season and Premier League player of the season in the same year. Oh, and while Michael Owen needed 48 games to score three hat-tricks in the top flight, the previous fastest record, Haaland did it in eight. With hat-tricks in three consecutive games. Another first.

Lest we think this was beginner’s luck, he has started the 2023-24 season in similar style. He scored at Burnley after only four minutes and hit the back of the net again later in the first half in a 3-0 win for City. The bookies have him as clear favourite to be top scorer again this season. I would not bet against him.

Advertisement

We are at the Etihad Stadium in Manchester and Haaland is here with his father, Alfie. Haaland Sr is something of a Manchester City legend too. The Norwegian international played for the club from 2000 to 2003 and is obviously proud that his son, also an international for his country, has followed in his footsteps. There is clearly some friendly rivalry too. After the win against Burnley last season, Erling was on 17 Premier League goals, just one away from equalling his father’s tally. “I’ll try to get past him in the next game,” he quipped.

Wearing a Super Chronomat B01 44 in stainless steel and platinum with ice-blue dial, £9,800, breitling.com BREITLING

Erling was born while Alfie was in England, in the same year his father joined Manchester City from Leeds. He recalls little of his early years in Manchester. “I don’t remember a lot, I have to say,” he says. “I was born in 2000 and I don’t remember going to the games with my mother. I only sometimes get flashbacks from that period, when seeing pictures of my brother, my sister and myself on our way to school when we still lived in England.” Of his dad, he says, “He played with some good players. You have Nicolas Anelka, George Weah. Huge players. If I had to choose one [as a favourite], it would probably be Anelka.”

Although he is now an honorary Mancunian, Haaland is still fiercely Norwegian. “It’s amazing to see the Norwegian flag out in the stands,” he says. “It’s a really nice feeling and it makes me proud. I was born in England, but of course I am Norwegian.” He talks of how happy he is that his fellow countrymen, such as the Arsenal and Norway captain Martin Odegaard, “are putting Norway on the map”.

What’s striking about this 23-year-old is how down to earth he is. “I’m not counting how many people are wearing my jersey,” he says. “That’s for others to do, but of course I hope that I can influence and make kids believe that you can be a young player from Bryne [his home town, south of Stavanger] and become a top scorer in the Premier League. It was my dream since I was young.”

Sponsored

He talks about how he gets excited (“Normally I sleep well but I’m excited like everybody else”) and how he stays focused. “I don’t do special mental training,” he says. “When I get the penalty, I focus on staying calm, breathe, try not to think of what could happen if I miss. That’s the worst thing to do. So for me, it is about trying to relax and to get the ball in the back of the net because in the end that’s what I want to do and I love that feeling.”

Wearing a Chronomat Automatic GMT 40 in stainless steel, £4,950, breitling.com BREITLING

Does he feel pressure? “Of course. Today I went out and played in front of 50,000 fans and I know millions of people are watching from home, but I think it’s about enjoyment. Life is short and a football career is short, so I’m going out there to enjoy it as much as I can.”

It is this refreshing openness that has endeared him to fans all over the world. For the most famous player in the Premier League, Haaland is surprisingly devoid of self-consciousness. And he is not remotely flash. He prefers simple sports clothes in minimal monochrome (“I often wear white or black”) to anything more ostentatious. Today he’s wearing a white T-shirt, black bomber jacket and track pants.

He does have one sartorial indulgence, however: watches. Haaland has been signed to Breitling, the Swiss watch company, as an ambassador and today he is wearing one of its Chronomat GMTs.

Advertisement

“I always knew a little bit about watches, but not too much,” he says. “It was someone close to me that really got me into it and my father also always loved watches. Through them I kind of got the passion.”

Why Breitling? “My grandpa, who I’m named after, wore a Breitling, which is where I first came in contact with the brand. I always knew about it and for me it’s about good vibes, having good energy around me. I felt that when I spoke to my dad about the brand.”

There is a bit of superstition at play here too. He is a little concerned about switching to his new GMT timepiece. One of Haaland’s other Breitlings is a Top Time Triumph chronograph, a collaboration with the British motorcycle brand. It has a distinctive pale blue dial that pairs nicely with Manchester City’s strip.

“It’s a beautiful colour,” he says. “With the other watch [the blue one], I scored a lot of goals when I wore it before my games so it’s going be hard to change it now. If I don’t score in the next game when I wear this new one, then that’s a problem.”

breitling.com