Taking advantage of bank holidays can be a great way to boost your annual leave as they’re days everyone gets to take off either on the day or in lieu. But the number of days you get off and when they fall are slightly different in Scotland and Northern Ireland compared to England and Wales. It’s also worth bearing in mind that 2024 is a leap year so there’s an extra day in February. If you want to plan ahead and book the time off, here are the bank holidays coming up in the UK.

Main photo: Brighton during a bank holiday weekend (Alamy)

This article contains affiliate links. Our travel journalism is written and edited by independent experts to inform, inspire and advise our readers about the best choices for your holidays. We also feature properties and itineraries from a specially selected list of trusted operators. These buttons and adverts are clearly signposted, and provide direct links through to external sites. If you click and buy a product, we may earn revenue. Show more Show less

Boxing Day swimmers at Ayr beach, Scotland (Getty Images)

How many bank holidays are there in the UK in 2024?

There are four nations in the UK and the number of bank holidays for each one is different. England and Wales each have eight bank holidays, Scotland has nine bank holidays while Northern Ireland has ten bank holidays.

In some years, there have also been additional bank holidays due to special events, such as the King’s coronation in 2023.

When is the next bank holiday in the UK?

Below are the bank holiday dates for 2024 for England and Wales. Note that the dates are slightly different for Scotland and Northern Ireland (see below).

Monday , January 1 New Year’s Day

, New Year’s Day Friday, March 29 Good Friday

Good Friday Monday, April 1 Easter Monday

Easter Monday Monday, May 6 early May bank holiday

early May bank holiday Monday, May 27 spring bank holiday

spring bank holiday Monday, August 26 summer bank holiday

summer bank holiday Wednesday, December 25 Christmas Day

Christmas Day Thursday, December 26 Boxing Day

What about Scotland and Northern Ireland?

Scotland has an extra day off after New Year’s Day (Tuesday, January 2), taking its annual bank holiday total to nine. And while it doesn’t have Easter Monday, it does have a day off towards the end of the year for St Andrew’s Day (it’s Monday, December 2 in 2024). Its August bank holiday also falls on a different day — in 2024 it’s on Monday, August 5.

Northern Ireland’s bank holidays are largely the same as those for England and Wales but there are two extra days off: St Patrick’s Day (the substitute bank holiday is Monday, March 18 in 2024) and a day to mark the anniversary of the Battle of the Boyne (Orangemen’s Day) on Friday, July 12.