Q. My closest friend in life is a woman who works in the same office as me. We chat every day at work and outside of work. We have known each other for a number of years and from the day I met her I have been smitten. I built up the courage to ask her if she felt the same way about me, and whether or not she’d like to become more than friends. Sadly, she doesn’t feel the same way. We have continued to be friends and nothing has really changed between us. I am finding it very difficult not to have feelings for her. The only way out that I can see is for me no longer to be friends with her, but I don’t want that since it would be cutting off what feels like a big part of my life. Any advice would be great.

A. As I read your question, I felt protective of you. Unrequited love can be so very painful.

I infer from your question that finding it difficult not to have feelings for your friend is a polite way of saying that you constantly play out scenarios about how to get her. It takes up enormous emotional space, hurts and stops you from being available for someone else. Daily torture.

My automatic response was that you should leave your job and cut ties with your friend. Being in the same office as the woman with whom you are smitten, who doesn’t return your feelings, will keep your longing alive.

My thinking was underpinned by this: passion, which is another word for sex, is the most potent drug on the planet. Your mind is bathed by the neurotransmitter dopamine, wanting with an unquenchable hunger the object of your love. It is addictive. When the brains of men and women “in love” were put under an MRI scanner, many of the same parts of the brain lit up as those on crack cocaine. “Love is a drug” is true, as is the madness of love.

Advertisement

When recovering from an unfulfilled relationship, the traditional advice is that there must be a large gap of time and space between the declaration of love, allowing the feelings to dwindle, then reforming a friendship.

That is a possible option, but one you’d prefer to avoid, and you would pay a high price — in having to find another job and not having this vital friendship.

• Read more advice from Julia Samuel

Before you take this radical and costly route, I thought you could take another route: journey inside yourself.

Sponsored

You could view this as an opportunity to open the door to your subconscious and deal with what is happening beneath the surface. Explore your inner world.

We often follow patterns in our love relationships, well-worn pathways that we tread repeatedly. Maybe now is the time to change.

I don’t know how old you are, your sex or your history of relationships. I notice the language you use is muted and maybe my translation of “smitten” as being “in love” isn’t entirely accurate. But stay with me anyway.

Could it be useful to ask yourself if you are attached to suffering? Loving is risky and many sabotage love through “distance management”, putting themselves in situations that ensure they do not get loved in return.

Advertisement

Through your early childhood experiences, it set up a template in you that means you are emotionally attached to suffering. Your behaviour plays out what is unresolved in your psyche. With these unresolved negative emotions, the child in us influences our present. The unresolved negative emotions could be that you want love, yet at some deeper level you expect rejection and ensure it happens. When we do the work to expose the dynamics of our psyche, we can achieve inner freedom.

This is complex. I suggest you take the required time and cost and go to psychotherapy to unravel it.

If psychotherapy isn’t possible, perhaps think of the Buddhist approach. When we accept suffering as part of life, it releases us. That spirit of acceptance doesn’t mean “it’s all good”, but facing reality as it is can help you to continue forward without the binding narrative of your story that you can’t be happy. Genuine love is the acceptance of reality. If we love someone and they are our friend, and they don’t want a more intimate relationship with us, why reject reality and say they must love me back or I will cut myself off? It may liberate you to be grateful for the friendship you have, real friendship being a rare and precious gift, and free your mind to look for love in other places.

Learning to grow through pain — allowing change — and being adaptive and flexible brings growth and potential happiness. When we become fixated on one thing, we lose that flexibility. Our attachments become chains that bind us.

Pain is inevitable, but to suffer or not to suffer is your choice.