Late February into early March is one of the best times of year to visit Goa, the sandy swathe of India’s west coast stacked with chilled-out, bohemian beach hotels. Peak season (November-February) is coming to an end, with winter’s warm, dry weather lingering into April and early May before the monsoon rains begin. Holidaymakers can expect temperatures between 23-33C, with a pleasant sea breeze to keep things fresh; meanwhile package prices and room rates drop as the main winter-sun rush tails off.

That’s why First Choice’s entry-level packages are such a steal over the coming weeks, with seven nights in north Goa from £894pp in early March. Yes, that’s in a guesthouse but it’s four-star and authentic-feeling, and couples (or pairs of friends sharing a room) booking this deal will get flights, breakfast, transfers and hold baggage thrown in.

Perched on a rocky promontory backed by thick jungle and swaying palms, your base is the charming O Pescador boutique hotel, with just 22 rooms and a mellow pool terrace just footsteps from the waves. Rooms in low-rise, cottage-style buildings come with the luxe touches of a generous pool and sea views; they’re simply furnished with terracotta tiles, ceiling fans and dark wood furniture.

O Pescador boutique hotel

In the petite restaurant A Tricana, you can order freshly sizzled prawn and fish curries to be served on the tranquil garden patio, while a traditional Goan breakfast comes with plenty of tropical fruit and jugs of fresh juices. This one’s for travellers who really want to immerse themselves in a low-key, natural setting that still has its intrepid, backpacker spirit.

• 14 of the best hotels in Goa

• Goa: when to go, what to do and why you’ll love it

Advertisement

O Pescador is in the former fishing village of Dona Paula, just 35 minutes’ drive from the airport but nevertheless off the beaten track with a slim, sandy beach of its own that’s under an hour’s drive from the popular north Goan lounging spots Candolim and Calangute. Beaches closer by are better known for their jet-skiing, windsurfing, waterskiing and parasailing. As well as sea views and a slow pace of living, you’re in the right place for trips into Goa’s intriguing capital, Panjim — don’t miss the mango-orange and mint-green houses of the vivid Fontainhas Latin Quarter — and Velha Goa, the old capital with its cathedral and Archaeological Museum. Also nearby are colourful temples and ornate churches, with bargain restaurants on your doorstep serving Portuguese-influenced Goan cuisine.

Consider hiring a driver-guide for a tour from Dona Paula; all-day tours of north Goa can cost as little as £20pp (the hotel can help with recommendations). But you may just want to kick back under the enormous, seaward-bending palms, to read a book in the hotel’s tropical pool gardens and bask in that reliable winter sun.

What you get for your £900pp

• Direct Gatwick-Goa flights and return coach transfers

• 20kg hold luggage

• Seven nights’ B&B, departing on March 5, 9 or 12 (firstchoice.co.uk)

This article contains affiliate links that can earn us revenue

Feeling flush?

Sponsored

If you’re inspired and have a bit more cash to splash, try these higher-end options.

The £1,200 holiday

The Novotel Resort & Spa has gardens adorned with lily ponds

If you want the reassurance of an all-inclusive rate, try a week at the pretty Novotel Resort & Spa in Candolim, where lily ponds and swinging sofa chairs adorn lovely gardens with a pool and swim-up bar. Rooms are modern, comfy and well equipped, if a bit business-coded; there’s a simple spa and on-site yoga classes to join. For explorers, the location is handy for north Goa’s popular Baga, Calangute and Sinquerim beaches.

Details Seven nights’ all-inclusive from £1,203pp, including flights and transfers, departing on March 16 (bluebaytravel.co.uk)

The £1,800 holiday

The Alila Diwa Goa is inspired by Balinese architecture

For something swankier, Goa Experience has a well-priced week at the five-star Alila Diwa Goa. Inspired by Balinese architecture, it’s a high-design place in emerald rice paddies in Majorda, south Goa, close to an uncrowded beach. There’s an ayurvedic spa if you want to squeeze in a massage applied with warm herbal oils, while four restaurants include a glam Indian number, Spice Studio, set around a banyan tree.

Details Seven nights’ B&B from £1,739pp, including flights and transfers, departing on March 11 (goaexperience.co.uk)

Sign up for our Times Travel newsletter and follow us on Instagram and X