The sunlight is just peeking in through the blinds — it’s only 8am, but I have a craving for a proper New York bagel. I leave my hotel and walk east, into the grid of low-rise red-brick buildings and polished-up warehouses. One or two other early birds pass me by, jogging to Domino Park or walking pampered-looking dogs, but mostly it’s hushed and blue-skied. The perfect morning.

This is New York in slower motion. I’m in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, just three subway stops from Manhattan, but infinitely more serene in pace. At the retro Leon’s Bagels the guy behind the counter tells me that they get a lot of British visitors staying here these days (bagel with cream cheese £2; leonsbagels.com).

I’ve been coming to New York City for more than a decade now — once or twice a year at least — and have always loved the noisy, grimy, chaotic central island of Manhattan. Why stay across the water when you could be stepping out from under a classic hotel canopy onto Fifth Avenue or into Central Park? You come to New York for New York — every cramped, stereo-blaring, cab-dodging bit of it.

The River Café at the Brooklyn Bridge ALAMY

But now I’m in my mid-thirties and tiring of the urban crush at home in London, Brooklyn appeals. I’ve done most of the sightseeing on offer in Manhattan — from the Empire State Building to the Statue of Liberty — and these days I want to live, eat and shop like a local. So I am making Williamsburg my New York home for a five-day break.

Brooklyn is quieter, cleaner and, in many ways, trendier. Alongside the pretty, low-rise architecture, a main artery (Bedford Avenue) stacked with bars and shops and idyllic spots such as the riverside Domino Park, it has spectacular views to Manhattan. Particularly from the rooftop bar at the new Arlo Williamsburg hotel, my reasonably priced base. I go there for a cocktail on my first night in town, the river breeze ruffling my hair as I gaze at that skyline.

Advertisement

• 29 best hotels in New York for your next stay in the city

• New York travel guide: all you need to know

In Williamsburg, around those red-brick apartment buildings, you’ll see brownstones with flowerpots on their doorsteps and the odd wooden clapboard house, or faded fabric canopies. Don’t be fooled by the apparent quaintness; this is one of the 16 most expensive New York neighbourhoods in which to live, right after Greenwich Village. But it hides its wealth in discreetly transformed warehouses and glassy new-builds. As well as being a hotspot for new boutique hotels and white-cube, independent galleries such as Pierogi (pierogi2000.com), Williamsburg is increasingly visible on the city’s “best new restaurants” lists.

New York City skyline from Brooklyn GETTY IMAGES

You can hop between establishments set up by the lauded local chefs Andrew Carmellini (Leuca), Yiming Wang and Xian Zhang (Birds of a Feather), Christopher Cipollone (Francie) and Cheng Lin (Shota Omakase) — all of whom first generated buzz in Manhattan.

There are also plenty of local institutions: Peter Luger Steak House is the stuff of meaty legend, while celebs from Andy Warhol to Elizabeth Taylor have dined at the Dumbo neighbourhood’s view-blessed River Café, established in 1977. And even Jay-Z and Beyoncé, Brooklyn royalty, have popped in for drinks at Maison Premiere.

Sponsored

I focus on the new places, such as the Thai joint Kru, a low-lit, industrial-chic restaurant where you won’t eat anything resembling a pad Thai. The chef, Ohm Suansilphong, who made his name in Manhattan with the NoHo restaurant Fish Cheeks, has been collecting historic recipes from his homeland for decades, reimagining dishes such as beef-tongue curry and serving them alongside Thai-inspired cocktails. I try rainbow crudités dunked into a spicy crabmeat, miso and coconut relish and a squid salad done ceviche-style with lime. It’s a glamorous atmosphere and, as a solo traveller, I delight in sitting at the bar, watching people on dates (mains from £18; krubrooklyn.com).

A steak sandwich at the Peter Luger Steak House LIZ CLAYMAN

Another exciting new arrival is Huda. On a sleepy residential street, this twinkling dining room has forest-green, velvety banquettes and an elegant marble counter. I try the grilled aubergine, peppery with black garlic, nigella and fresh herbs, and shish barak, tortellini-like parcels of scented, spiced lamb drizzled with yoghurt. A carrot-juice-infused cocktail feels more spa than bar. There’s no trace of snootiness, either (small plates from £14; hudabrooklyn.com).

Williamsburg’s shopping scene is similarly down to earth. Alongside indie jewellery boutiques and carefully curated fashion stores, vintage shopping is thriving. I get chatting to Alexandra, the manager at Le Grand Strip. Bursting with feathers, lace and sequins, this burlesque-spirited boutique is where Carrie Bradshaw would surely shop if she ever crossed the bridge (legrandstrip.com). “This is basically the West Village now,” Alexandra tells me, alluding to Manhattan’s original bohemian enclave. “If you’re an artist or a creative — or just a young person — this is where you want to be.”

• 28 of the best things to do in New York

• 18 tips for doing New York on a budget

Advertisement

At the Little Brooklyn Market, a second-hand bookshop opens onto several hippy-ish boutiques, an artisan’s market and the fabulous Awoke Vintage. These streets don’t feel touristy; bar one new development with a glossy yoga boutique and an Apple Store, they’re peppered with tattoo parlours, nail salons, indie coffee shops and dive bars.

Being more of a martini girl, I go for the Fresh Kills cocktail bar, where they don’t believe in menus. Instead, under a curved wooden ceiling, my bleach-haired bartender asks me what I like. I waffle on about whisky cocktails and “nothing too sweet” and she prescribes me a rye-based Double Barrel. It’s delicious and only £15 (in Manhattan’s tourist centre, £28 is not unheard of; freshkillsbar.com).

The Arlo Willamsburg

This whole laid-back, eclectic scene is within a compact grid of 50 or so streets that is eminently walkable. It’s also much less stressful than navigating the widely spread neighbourhoods of Manhattan. You don’t have to do as much advance planning, either — I strolled into two or three hot-right-now venues with no reservation or wait.

If you’re not into contemporary art, you may find hip micro-galleries such as AM:PM and Carrie Able somewhat repetitive — I was happier schlepping the 30 minutes into Midtown Manhattan for a few hours with Monet’s Water Lilies and Van Gogh’s The Starry Night at the Museum of Modern Art. It’s just as easy to whizz in for a Broadway show or to gaze at the windows on Fifth Avenue, spending just over £2 on the subway before retreating to your calmer bubble.

Handily, when it’s time to go home, Brooklyn is also that bit closer to JFK airport, with none of the bridge or tunnel queues that you get from Manhattan. Wise to this city’s frankly indefensible cab fares— about £65 plus tip for a trip to the airport — I drag my suitcase onto the subway, thankfully newly equipped with contactless-card barriers. After an hour’s journey involving one change and a cost of £9, I’m at the AirTrain terminal. Stress-free, local-feeling New York City? I think I’ve nailed it.

This article contains affiliate links that can earn us revenue

Lucy Thackray was a guest of Arlo Hotels, which has room-only doubles at the Arlo Williamsburg from £165 (arlohotels.com), and British Airways, which has London-New York returns from £393 (ba.com)

Advertisement

Sign up for our Times Travel newsletter and follow us on Instagram and X