Botox is perhaps the only aesthetic treatment that has become a household name, with the brand becoming as synonymous with muscle-freezing, wrinkle-reducing injections as Hoover has with vacuum cleaners. Despite this, some people are still wary of the toxin (that word doesn’t help), worried about looking permanently surprised or, even worse, fearing a mishap could lead to facial paralysis. For those wanting to know more, here’s what Botox and other wrinkle relaxers actually do and don’t do.

Botox (botulinum toxin) is a brand of toxin that was originally developed in the 1970s to treat eye issues such as strabismus (crossed eyes) by affecting muscle movement in that area. It can be prescribed only in a face-to-face meeting by a qualified medical practitioner. “Nerves send signals (neurotransmitters) to muscles to contract,” says Dr Wassim Taktouk, a GP with dermatology qualifications turned aesthetic doctor, who has been using Botox on his patients for more than a decade. “Botox blocks those signals from being sent.”

Since the 1990s Botox, alongside other brands of similar toxins, has been used by cosmetic doctors. They are popular “because they are a generally predictable, safe and consistent way to treat wrinkles”, Taktouk says. Injected in very small doses, these toxin injections can minimise the appearance of wrinkles and prevent more from forming by temporarily “freezing” the muscles. The less a face is moving, the fewer line-forming creases the skin makes.

What do toxin injections feel like and how quickly are results seen?

For most people toxin injections into the face are practically painless. The needle is tiny, but it is still a needle, so patients often feel a sharp scratch in delicate areas, such as around the eyes. It might feel a little pinchy, but any pain tends to disappear in an instant.

Unlike with fillers, people who have wrinkle-relaxing treatments don’t leave the clinic looking any different from the way they did when they entered. The effects of the injections usually start around two days after the visit. Dr Sophie Shotter, an aesthetic doctor, explains: “Full results should show two weeks after an appointment. During that ‘setting’ period, there may be times where a patient thinks something doesn’t look quite right — one half of a forehead relaxing faster than the other, for instance — so we have to reassure them and ask them to wait for the full two weeks before a review.”

Advertisement

Any reputable doctor should request that the patient come back for a two-week follow-up to make any adjustments or at least book in the appointment, even if it’s not deemed necessary once the time comes.

Where are toxin injections used?

Traditionally, Botox and other wrinkle relaxers are used to treat static lines in the face, “lines that are visible at rest, not just when moving the face”, Taktouk says. The most popular sites of injection are in the upper face: the forehead (to lift brows and prevent deep lines from forming), between the brows (to prevent “11” lines) and around the eyes to soften wrinkles.

Moving down the face, it is also used on “bunny lines” on either side of the nose, to lift downward corners of the mouth, in the masseter muscles at the side of the jaw to help to slim the face, as a “lip flip” to alleviate the top lip looking thin, to stop the chin from “cobbling”, and “even between the nostrils to prevent the nose from turning down when a person smiles”, Taktouk adds.

What is ‘baby Botox’?

“Baby Botox is the same principle as normal Botox, it just means administering fewer units,” Taktouk says. “It’s a gentle way for people to be introduced to it, although most of my patients want this look anyway: a softer, more natural result that maintains some of the lines and movement.” Anything that does not involve the fully frozen look is probably “baby” Botox (or Botox “sprinkles”) even if it’s not marketed as such, and can be done with other wrinkle-relaxing brands.

Can having toxin injections early prevent wrinkles from forming?

Sponsored

Some people try to get ahead of wrinkles using toxin injections as a preventive measure. “The best time for treatment is before dynamic lines (those that appear with muscle movement) become static,” Shotter says. “The age at which this happens varies and depends on factors like genetics and sun exposure, but typically it’s in one’s early thirties.” Catching a line or wrinkle in its early stages of development is more effective, she says, because once it becomes deep or static, toxin injections may soften it but won’t remove it altogether.

That being said, preventive toxin injections should be low on the list when it comes to thinking about skin ageing in a person’s younger years, certainly up to the mid-twenties. “The focus should be on skin health and good skincare (antioxidants and SPF),” Taktouk says, adding that fixating on smooth, wrinkle-free faces can in some cases make people look more mature than their age.

Which skin issues can’t be helped with toxin injections?

Although it’s a great solution for softening and preventing lines, toxin injections aren’t miracle workers. “Once static lines and wrinkles have reached a certain point, [toxin injections] alone won’t treat them,” Shotter says. At this point filler may have more effect. And there are other instances when filler is preferable. “Enhancing lip shape or lifting nasolabial folds (the deep vertical lines between the lips and cheeks), for example, are volume-related concerns, which are better suited to filler or other treatments,” Shotter says. Toxin injections also aren’t strong enough to “lift” cheeks or jowls.

It’s also important to remember that Botox and other toxin injections are not permanent, nor do they “help” the skin in any other way (in terms of hydration or skin quality). The toxin — and its effects — will wear off after three to four months.

What can go wrong with toxin injections?

Advertisement

As with any aesthetic procedure, there are risks involved. Improper use of the toxin, such as injecting into the wrong muscle group, can cause heaviness, drooping eyelids or asymmetry. Unlike fillers, toxin injections cannot be “dissolved” or undone, so there is no option but to wait for any undesirable effects to wear off.

For anyone considering Botox, or any similar treatment, it’s incredibly important to do research and find the most appropriate practitioner. While the toxin can only be prescribed by a medical professional, the actual treatment can be performed by anyone, which leaves it largely unregulated. Associations such as the Professional Standards Authority for Health and Social Care and the British College of Aesthetic Medicine (BCAM) are good places to check credentials.