A healthy scalp is the key to a luscious and full head of hair; at least that’s what the “hair whisperer” Ricardo Vila Nova says. A Portuguese trichologist with a background in biochemistry, Vila Nova has spent decades researching ways to revitalise hair, but when it came to delivery he wanted to offer the comforts of a traditional salon. As such, when he is not in New York or LA preparing celebrities for events, he can be found on the fifth floor of Harrods. It’s a small but sumptuous space, barely able to contain the regulars waiting for their appointments, many of whom have been seeing Vila Nova since he opened his clinic.

Upon arrival, I’m ushered to a salon chair where Vila Nova examines my hair. I talk about increased hair loss, breakage and general dryness. I confess to my love of hot tools and the years of bleaching. I brace myself for a lecture, but this is a safe space — there will be no judgment here. “I’m not going to tell people not to dye their hair or blow dry it,” says Vila Nova. “Hair must be enjoyed, otherwise what’s the point!” Even better, he says he can fix things “no problem”.

Ricardo Vila Nova is a trichologist with a background in biochemistry

He pulls out a strand of my hair in order to inspect it under a microscope. This can scan the hair for proteins and identify whether your body’s particular brand of hair loss is thanks to genetics or another cause, such as hormones. The scan produces a sort of “x-ray” of the hair sample, and it is from this that Vila Nova decides upon a strategy. He diagnoses my issue quickly — I need to repair the protein bonds in my hair. He then points out that my hair cuticle is weak, which often indicates poor scalp health. He also gives me permission to blame my dad for my weak hair — apparently the eldest children tend to inherit their father’s hair texture.

An LTT laser is used to help increase blood flow to the scalp, and as a result hair growth @MANUELMANSO

When putting together a treatment plan for his clients, Vila Nova takes a holistic approach, looking at the fundamental causes of hair loss. “I believe that to treat hair you first need to understand the body’s vulnerabilities and the impact that the immune system can have on the hair,” he explains, adding that lifestyle habits, including nutrition, can also have an impact on hair health. His treatments are generally best suited to thinning and weak hair, as it can be difficult to tackle completely bald patches, but in some cases Vila Nova has had luck restoring hair to these areas. He’s done this using products made with growth factors, peptides and exosomes in bio-identical formulas, which imitate the hormones that aid hair growth, helping to balance hormone levels and promote cell proliferation.

After the analysis of my hair, it’s time to get down to business. I lean back into an exceptionally comfortable wash basin with a neat neck-supporting pillow and Vila Nova begins by double cleansing my hair with a shampoo made in his clinic. After this, he applies a protein and cortex repair mask and a further mask made of a protein and collagen mixture, chosen according to my hair’s needs and formulated by Vila Nova himself. I am then left under the basin’s steamer for ten minutes to help the masks to absorb. Just as my scalp is beginning to feel a little too minty fresh, he washes out the masks and spends another ten minutes on a relaxing scalp and neck massage. This is a particular highlight for someone who loves having their hair played with, and is also an important part of the process as scalp massage can help to stimulate hair growth.

Advertisement

Vila Nova uses microneedling to apply a custom formula to clients’ scalps

After this, back at the hair station, he begins the slightly painful process of microneedling my scalp and applying a protein and amino acid treatment, parting my hair into sections to evenly apply the formula. Next, he rolls over a high-powered LTT laser, which looks a bit like an LED lamp but is much more potent. He explains that his laser will help to increase blood flow and as a result hair growth, and will also help the previous treatments to penetrate more deeply into my scalp.

Once I’ve spent about 15 minutes under the laser, it is rolled away and Vila Nova gives me a blow dry. My hair emerges not only bouncy and fresh-looking, but also shinier than I’d ever seen it. Plus smooth! And somehow, weightless?!

Just when I start to think this can’t get any better, I’m handed a bespoke shampoo and a hair mask, made by Vila Nova in the clinic. He uses active ingredients like peptides, probiotics, fatty acids, biocell collagen, hyaluronic acid, amino acids, B-Panthenol and keratin. Keeping up the work at home is an essential part of the programme’s success.

Vila Nova typically recommends a minimum of four treatments, each about a month apart, so it’s possible to track the hair regrowth process. Then, at the end of the initial course, he’ll work with clients to continue strengthening and growing their hair as needed.

Sponsored

A few weeks after my first visit, a collection of baby hairs began to form around the crown of my head where I was experiencing hair loss. More generally, I found that I was losing much less hair in the shower and my hair was less prone to breakage. By my second visit, things in the hair department were feeling overall much thicker and shinier. So who knows what magic will happen after the next few visits. If you don’t recognise me, I’ll be the one with the long flowing locks.

Initial hair scan begins at £180. To book visit ricardovilanova.com