Creating a workplace culture that is truly gender-equal demands deep seated change for most employers. The roll call presented here highlights the organisations that have committed themselves to that change and are transforming the experience of women in the workplace.

Those that made it on to the list of The Times Top 50 Employers for Women were selected by gender equality experts at Business in the Community, part of the Prince’s Responsible Business Network.

This year’s top 50 are unranked and listed in alphabetical order. Any employer with a UK presence can apply to be on the list by supplying details of how they are working towards gender equality. The assessment focuses on transparency, the causes behind gaps, what companies are doing to identify and address these structural issues and the impact

of their actions. The evaluation includes, but is not limited to: roles of senior leaders; actions to increase representation of women in senior positions and ensure gender balance at all levels; recruitment; progression; intersectionality; supporting parents and carers; bullying and harassment; pay processes; and external engagement to promote gender equality outside their organisation.

Here, in their own words, are the top 50:

Accenture

We set a goal to achieve a gender balanced workforce by 2025. We met interim targets of 40 per cent female new hires and of promoting more women to MD level.

Addleshaw Goddard LLP

We understand the importance of working with our senior leaders to drive cultural change and we invest heavily in female talent.

Allen & Overy

Creating a better gender balance is a strategic priority for us. There is determination and focus at the top of the firm to bring about change by addressing real issues.

Atos IT Service UK Limited

Our industry is male dominated so initiatives to strengthen gender diversity and promote an environment where all can thrive are priorities.

Aviva

We promote the progression and retention of talented women by fostering a positive culture of support and professional development.

Barclays

We support women at every stage of their personal and professional lives – when they are just thinking about joining and throughout their careers.

Baringa Partners

We are committed to creating a truly inclusive workplace. Our Returners Programme is one way we strive to achieve gender equality at all levels of our company.

BP

Female representation is increasing in line with our 2020 gender ambitions. We have targeted female recruitment and, through development schemes, retained female talent.

Brainlabs

Closing the pay gap was a first step in our commitment to gender equality. Further great strides have followed, the effects of which will be felt for years to come.

BT PLC

We promote a diverse environment where everyone can be the best they can. Through training, and minimising unconscious bias, we aim to be fully inclusive.

Capgemini UK

Commitment from strong leadership is driving our actively inclusive culture, and challenging and changing our practices.

CMS

We work hard to make our firm a great place to be. Our inclusive culture supports women with policies such as our “Time out, no questions asked” initiative.

Costain Group PLC

For the first time in our history, more than 50 per cent of our graduate intake was female. We are committed to challenging gender stereotypes at all levels.

Credit Suisse

Our commitment to the Women in Finance Charter is reflected in our diversity initiatives. This ensures female talent is attracted to and stays with the organisation.

Deloitte

Achieving gender balance is a primary focus of our firm. Success is reliant on the right culture and we focus on inclusion and respect at all times.

DWP

We are a public sector organisation with more than 82,000 staff, 67 per cent of them female. We are committed to a culture that provides opportunities for all.

Enterprise Rent-A-Car

More than 40 per cent of our board is female, including our CEO. Our “promote from within” structure helps women to progress.

Eversheds Sutherland LLP

All our teams are committed to achieving 30 per cent female representation at partner level, and greater gender equality at all levels.

EY

Our Women’s Network and Women in Technology groups continue to grow and to further gender equality, along with our Inclusive Leadership programme.

Fidelity International

To unlock women’s financial power we need to address the barriers to women investing. Our GET INvested campaign highlights this.

Financial Conduct Authority

We lead the way in gender equality at senior level: 50 per cent of our non-executive board members are female and 40 per cent of managers.

Fujitsu

We inspire women to share our ambition of shaping a better world through technology: 50-50 male to female shortlists are helping us reach our 2020 goals.

Goldman Sachs

Our senior business leaders are driving changes that benefit all professionals across the firm. Our focus is on diversity, inclusivity and accountability.

HM Revenue & Customs

We’ve seen a significant improvement in female representation at senior level. We focus on all our people to become a truly inclusive organisation.

Hogan Lovells International LLP

We are improving our ability to retain and develop women lawyers through a retention and engagement initiative, sponsored from the top.

KPMG

We want to create an inclusive culture where all colleagues can maximise their potential. We are focusing on increasing leadership capability across the organisation.

Linklaters

Our “Career Storyboard” spells out the complex factors that affect female recruitment, retention and progression. This knowledge helps our leaders take action.

Lloyds Banking Group

Of the women who took part in our “Women in Leadership”, programme in 2018, 27 per cent have since been promoted.

Marks & Spencer

We promote gender equality in every part of our organisation: through employees (70 per cent are female); the supply chain; and in our products and services.

McKinsey & Company

Gender diversity is a priority and our research has proved its value in the workplace. Parity at senior levels and in recruitment is continuing to improve.

Mercer LLC

We cherish diversity, and aim to ensure colleagues reach their full potential. We’re committed to gender balance and opening up the gender equality discussion.

Morgan Stanley

We have put significant effort into strengthening the senior female pipeline, with gender balanced shortlists and robust leadership programmes.

National Grid

The most powerful thing anyone can do to unlock their potential is to be authentic. We strive for an inclusive environment where everyone

can be at their best.

Norton Rose Fulbright

We remain committed to attracting and retaining female talent, and improving the gender balance of our leadership.

PepsiCo

PepsiCo provides an inclusive workplace for all employees. We offer flexible working, and programmes to accelerate women’s careers.

Pinsent Masons LLP

We are working towards a better gender balance: 25 per cent of our partners are female, and we have a target of

30 per cent by 2020.

Post Office

We have made great strides in relation to gender equality. Our leadership team is 42 per cent female, and we aspire to reach 50 per cent by 2020.

PwC LLP

To progress gender equality we have a five point action plan to drive change. All our business leaders are responsible and accountable for delivering this change.

RBS Group

We have more to do but we’re making progress. The proportion of women in our workforce has

risen to 44 per cent and in our most senior roles to 36 per cent.

Royal Air Force

Our policies in support of parenthood, for both men and women, allow them to have equally active and committed long-term roles both

at work and at home.

Royal Mail Group

Wmag, a Royal Mail publication delivered to all women staff, profiles inspiring female role models. Our focus is on increasing the numbers in operational roles.

Royal Navy

The Royal Navy has opened up all roles to women. We have initiatives to recruit more, and have rigorous processes to ensure promotions are fair.

Scottish Water

We have a range of initiatives to encourage women into STEM careers. Family friendly policies and talent development contribute to our inclusive culture.

Shell

Women make up 45 per cent of our board and 50 per cent of our graduate intake. Returnship and outreach programmes are driving improvement.

Simmons & Simmons

A geat deal of effort goes into our gender balance initiatives as part of our work to maintain an inclusive workplace for all our colleagues, women and men.

Sky

We’re making change happen. Through our Women in Home Service programme, we’ll have trained up to 800 women engineers by the end of 2019.

Sodexo UK and Ireland

Our study of 50,000 staff shows that if teams have an even gender mix, our business is safer, more profitable and employees are more engaged.

State Street

Our goal is to increase female representation across the organisation by setting targets at each level, holding our leaders accountable and measuring progress.

Vodafone

Our intention by 2025 is to become the best employer of women in the world – and we will be relentless in the efforts we make towards achieving this.

Willmott Dixon

Women account for 12.6 per cent of staff across the construction industry, and while we already have 25 per cent, we are determined to reach gender parity by 2030.

GET INVOLVED If you would like to see your company on this list, go to gender.bitc.org.uk