Spain’s Marta García wants to become the first female driver to start a Formula One race since 1976. That was nearly 50 years ago and since then the number of women competing in the sport across all categories has lingered at just 10 per cent. Formula Two is the highest rung of the ladder leading to F1 in which a female driver has raced since. The last time a woman made it to F2 was two years ago.

However, last October, the 23-year-old García came one step closer to achieving her dream when she became the champion of the inaugural F1 Academy, the all-female series that develops young drivers and feeds them into higher levels of the sport.

When García crossed the line at the series finale in Austin, she had tears in her eyes. “It was very emotional,” she tells me. Lewis Hamilton congratulated her while his team-mate, George Russell, handed out prizes on the podium. “Lewis is a hero. I’ve always looked up to him and just to have him there waiting to congratulate me was amazing.”

The F1 Academy was created by F1 to increase diversity in the sport following the demise of the W Series, an all-female single-seater racing tournament. Overall there will be fifteen women divided into five teams: Prema Racing, MP Motorsport, ART Grand Prix, Campos Racing and Rodin Motorsport. Each team has three cars and three female drivers. This will be the first year that each F1 team will nominate a female to fill one of these spots.

Lewis Hamilton with the F1 Academy drivers ahead of the F1 Academy race in Austin last October GETTY IMAGES

It will also be the first year that Academy races will take place every weekend on the same bill as F1. That means the same hundreds of thousands of people who come to watch the likes of Hamilton and Max Verstappen will witness young women flying around the track.

Advertisement

“To race in front of full grandstands and for everyone to see what the drivers are capable of will be very special,” explains Susie Wolff, the Academy’s managing director. As a former professional racing driver she knows the challenges these women face even to get in the driving seat. Wolff was the last woman to take part in a Formula One weekend, when she drove in free practice sessions as a development driver for the Williams team in 2014 and 2015.

Susie Wolff

One of the biggest barriers to entering racing, for men and for women, is money. It’s no secret that motorsport at all levels, from Formula Four to Formula One, is a rich man’s game, easily pricing out aspiring drivers who can’t afford the costs.

Research from the Cost of Raising a Pro found that it can cost up to £8 million across a driver’s career to progress from go-karting to F1, the route drivers such as Hamilton mostly take. Most professional drivers rely on external funding to reach the top. And if you don’t have those great connections, then you had better hope you have family money.

In addition to that, research conducted by the diversity initiative More Than Equal found that females face the unique challenge of having to convince investors and sponsors who are sceptical about women’s future in the sport. “A woman has the extra battle of having to persuade a backer that she is going to be the first to make it back onto the F1 grid,” Wolff explains.

The F1 Academy was created to increase diversity in the sport GETTY IMAGES

Sponsored

The F1 Academy tries to tackle this by reducing the contribution each driver has to make. In any other race series at this level drivers would have to put in approximately €600,000 (roughly £500,000). The Academy asks for just €100,000. That’s obviously still a house mortgage but also a “huge commitment” from F1, Wolff says. “It’s the pinnacle of the sport saying: we want our sport to be diverse and we are going to put our time, money and energy into making that happen.”

The women who race in the Academy are from across the world and a variety of backgrounds. Besides García there is the Dutch-Belgian-Spanish Maya Weug, 19, Ferrari’s nomination, who will race for the Prema team. The American Chloe Chambers, also 19, will have a seat on the Campos Racing team as Haas’s chosen driver. Abbi Pulling, 20, is British and will race for Rodin Motorsport after being nominated by the F1 team Alpine.

Bianca Bustamante learnt to drive when she was three. “It was almost like I learnt the pedals before I learnt to walk,” the Filipina driver explains. Another 19-year-old, she finished seventh in the 2023 season, and this year she will compete for ART Grand Prix after being chosen by McLaren.

The ART Grand Prix driver Bianca Bustamante GETTY IMAGES

Bustamante first noticed that she was the only girl at the track when she was about six years old. “I realised that I was the only one with long hair and an orange and pink helmet,” she says. “I remember asking my dad: how come there are not many people like me in this sport? How come there is always a male mechanic? Or a male coach? He had to teach me that this is a male-dominated sport, but that doesn’t mean you’ve got less of a chance. You’re a driver regardless of where you come from or your gender. How you drive will determine how far you get in the sport.”

Advertisement

The Academy has been a “dream come true”, she adds. Above all it’s been a rewarding but often gruelling learning experience. “I’ve been tested as a driver. You can’t always win. I’ve had to face mistakes I’ve made with bravery.”

Importantly, the Academy gives the women competing more “track time” than they would previously have had in smaller racing series. “Less time driving on the track means less time to learn as a driver,” Bustamante says.

Lewis Hamilton congratulates Marta Garcia after her victory in Austin GETTY IMAGES

Wolff’s goal is to have the first female driver starting on the F1 grid by 2030. “We’re not going to see a massive shift overnight. But we are laying the foundations for impact and change over a longer spell,” she says.

It’s not just diversity behind the wheel that is at the top of Wolff’s agenda. “We want to make the sport more accessible off the track too. There are thousands of people who are in the ecosystem who are part of the sport.”

The F1 Academy’s Discover Your Drive initiative aims to increase the talent pool of young girls and women entering the sport through youth engagement projects and talent identification. “We can’t just think about finding the next F1 driver. That would be too narrow [of a priority]. The whole sport needs to be more diverse,” Wolff says.