If you’re planning a trip to the Paris Olympics, why not discover some of France’s most brilliant off-the-beaten track museums while you’re at it?

Many people associate Aubusson with the tapestries and carpets made for French palaces after the workshops were granted a royal warrant in 1665. But this picturesque town on the River Creuse started producing tapestries long before that and continues to do so today. Inclusion of its six centuries of craftsmanship on Unesco’s list of intangible cultural heritage led to this 1,200 sq museum, housed in a reimagined 1969 building that evokes the coloured threads of a loom. Exhibits range from a late-medieval Millefleurs à la licorne tapestry to contemporary representations of the graphic work of JRR Tolkien and Hayao Miyazaki, the Studio Ghibli co-founder cite-tapisserie.fr

2. Fondation Maeght, St Paul de Vence

The publishers and art dealers Aimé and Marguerite Maeght created this private art institution following the death of their youngest son. Opened in 1964, it brings together works by their artist friends, who collaborated with Josep Lluís Sert — the Catalan architect of Miró’s studio in Mallorca — to “exhibit sculpture and painting in the best possible light and spatial conditions”, as Georges Braque put it. The result is a modernist reinterpretation of a Mediterranean village with a pool designed by Braque, a courtyard of sculptures by Giacometti, a labyrinth of fantastical creatures by Miró and much more. fondation-maeght.com

3. Château La Coste, near Aix-en-Provence

This wine estate outside Aix has a luxury hotel with a restaurant by Hélène Darroze, a spa by André Fu and 28 zen suites overlooking the vines. Yet the Irish owner Patrick McKillen has also turned his 200 hectares into an outdoor exhibition of site-specific works by the biggest names in contemporary architecture and art: Tadao Ando designed the art centre, Jean Nouvel the winery and there are installations by everyone from Ai Weiwei to Louise Bourgeois, whose Crouching Spider (2003) stalks over a pool. Book a tour in English (at 10am or 2.30pm daily) and a table at the restaurant by the Argentine chef Francis Mallmann. chateau-la-coste.com

4. Chapelle Matisse/du Rosaire, Vence

The south of France is bejewelled with museums dedicated to modern French artists: Van Gogh in Arles, Matisse and Chagall in Nice, Renoir in Cagnes-sur-Mer, Picasso in Antibes, Léger in Biot … A standout is this diminutive L-shaped chapel that the 77-year-old Matisse designed at the request of Monique Bourgeois, his former nurse turned Dominican nun, Stained-glass windows in three colours — yellow for the sun; green for the earth; blue for the sea, sky and Madonna — flood the all-white interior with a magical light and there are also three murals, designed by the ailing artist using a brush strapped to a long stick and transferred onto white tiles by a trusted craftsman. chapellematisse.com

Advertisement

5. Femmes Artistes du Musée de Mougins (FAMM)

From 2011 until August 2023 this medieval townhouse was home to the Mougins Museum of Classical Art — one of the word’s largest private collections of antiquities, presented alongside works by modern and contemporary artists from Matisse to Damien Hirst. But during Covid the owner, Christian Levett, a former commodities trader and collector, switched his focus to creating the “first major museum dedicated to art by women artists”. FAMM is due to open in June, with paintings by American artists associated with abstract expressionism — Joan Mitchell, Lee Krasner, Helen Frankenthaler, Grace Hartigan and Elaine de Kooning — as well as the contemporary British artists Cecily Brown, Sarah Lucas and Tracey Emin, with more to come. famm.art

6. Villa Ephrussi de Rothschild, St Jean Cap Ferrat

Baroness Béatrice de Rothschild was one of the great collectors of the belle époque. Born in 1864, the daughter of Alphonse — a regent of the Banque de France and a famous art collector himself — she married into more money and, after separating from her gambler husband and inheriting her father’s fortune, built this winter residence on a promontory overlooking the Mediterranean. Repainted Venetian pink after the war, the mansion is full of Sèvres and Vincennes porcelain, Gobelins tapestries and rococo paintings by François Boucher and Jean-Frédéric Schall. But if anything the nine themed gardens — including a French garden modelled on the ocean liner Île de France — are even more captivating. villa-ephrussi.com

7. Cité du Vitrail, Troyes

This stained-glass museum — one of two in France — opened in 2022 in the Hôtel-Dieu-le-Comte in Troyes, a town in the Grand Est region notable for its medieval old town and gothic cathedral with its remarkable stained-glass windows. A staircase hung with a monumental glass chandelier leads to the exhibits, which range from a 12th-century window originally created for the city’s original Romanesque cathedral (destroyed in a fire in 1188) to a reinterpretation of Ingres’ Saint Amelie by the African-American artist Kehinde Wiley. There is also a glass roof from Paris’s Palais du Trocadéro, designed for the 1878 Universal Exhibition, and a Lalique angel from Reims. cite-vitrail.fr