River cruising may be a slow and gentle way to travel but it’s far from dull; on the contrary, itineraries are getting more and more adventurous, whether you want to cycle along the Danube or watch the sunrise over Angkor Wat. Other trends we’re seeing include longer cruises that combine one or two rivers, as well as a focus on wellness — and river cruising for families. Here are ten of the best to float your boat in 2024.

This article contains affiliate links that can earn us revenue

Australian-owned APT is launching a smart new ship, Mekong Serenity, to explore Cambodia and Vietnam on 14-night itineraries that include two nights in Ho Chi Minh City, seven on the ship and three in Siem Reap to marvel at the temples of Angkor. Highlights include watching the sunrise over Angkor Wat, a speedboat trip to the Cu Chi tunnels, a trip to the poignant Killing Fields, a Buddhist blessing and dinner at the hip Vietnam House restaurant in Ho Chi Minh City.

Details Fourteen nights’ all-inclusive from £5,495pp including drinks, tips, activities and flights, departing on August 23 (aptouring.co.uk)

2. Active Douro

Porto city and Douro river GETTY IMAGES

The Douro is enjoying a moment in the sun, with several new ships plying the stretch of the deep valley between Porto and the Spanish border. Avalon launches the Alegria this year, carrying just 102 passengers in spacious, light-filled suites. Activities in the week-long itinerary include tasting olive oil and wine, exploring riverside villages and crossing the border into Spain for a day in the glorious, gold-hued university town of Salamanca. The ship has a fleet of bikes as well as yoga mats and maps of jogging routes, too.

Details Seven nights’ full board from £3,128pp including excursions, drinks with meals and daily happy hour, departing on April 10 (avalonwaterways.co.uk). Fly to Porto

3. Mini-cruise on the Moselle

Monreal village at Rhineland-Palatinate GETTY IMAGES

The steep-sided Moselle valley, with vineyards snaking over the hills at almost impossible gradients, is one of Europe’s prettiest river cruises. Distances are short, so you won’t travel far on this five-day mini-cruise from Koblenz to Bernkastel in Germany and back, which means all the more time in medieval riverside villages, all half-timbered houses and cobbled streets overlooked by hilltop castles. You’ll sail on the all-inclusive Viva Moments. Most cabins have a French balcony and you’ll enjoy fine dining and posh afternoon tea.

Advertisement

Details Four nights’ all-inclusive from £895pp, departing on September 4 (viva-cruises.com). Fly to Frankfurt

4. Fitness on the Danube

There’s a wellness coach aboard the Emerald Luna

Emerald Waterways’ contemporary ships have the vibe of a sleek boutique hotel. This seven-night cruise — from Budapest in Hungary to Regensburg, Germany — on Emerald Luna offers cycling tours along the rivers Inn and Danube, a hike to Dürnstein Castle, further hikes in Budapest and Bratislava, and a two-wheeled tour around cyclist-friendly Vienna alongside more conventional sightseeing. There’s also a wellness coach, a pool and a gym on board.

Details Seven nights’ full board from £1,872pp including some tours and a drinks package, departing on October 29 (emeraldcruises.co.uk). Fly to Budapest; return from Munich

5. Slow Seine

Honfleur harbour in Normandy GETTY IMAGES

You’ll have oodles of time to explore on this 11-day voyage along the Seine on the plush Scenic Gem as the ship overnights in Rouen, Honfleur and Paris. This is a momentous year to visit Normandy’s beaches, too, because it’s the 80th anniversary of the D-Day Landings. There are also trips to the Bayeux Tapestry and Monet’s house and garden, a cheese and calvados tasting and a private classical concert in Château de la Roche-Guyon. On board, you’ll find butler service, a fleet of ebikes and a choice of places to eat.

Details Ten nights’ all-inclusive from £3,484pp, departing on June 28 and including drinks, tips and tours (scenic.co.uk). Fly or take the Eurostar to Paris

6. Family-friendly Rhine

A-ROSA’s chips are designed with families in mind

German-owned A-ROSA goes against the flow in river cruising in that its colourful, informal ships are designed with families in mind. The hybrid-powered A-ROSA Sena has a kids’ club, two pools, one of which is just for kids, and family cabins that sleep up to five. Explore the northern Rhine this summer on an eight-night trip that includes a night in a Cologne hotel and seven on board, with overnight stays in Amsterdam and Antwerp. Family-friendly activities include the Anne Frank House, cycling and canal tours, Antwerp Zoo and in edgy Rotterdam, street art, model boats and waffles at the Markthal.

Details Seven nights’ all-inclusive on board and one B&B pre-cruise night from £4,999 for a family of four sharing, including some tours and flights, departing on July 12 (destination2cruise.co.uk)

7. One trip, two rivers

Viking Longship Mimir at Braubach Marksburg

Sponsored

Longer voyages are in vogue now and Viking’s new Lyons, Provence and the Rhineland itinerary includes 14 nights, seven of which are on the Rhône and seven on the Rhine. You’ll visit medieval Avignon, Roman Arles, Viviers, for a scenic train ride through the craggy Ardèche valley, and Lyons. Disembark and travel by coach through the rolling vineyards of the Route des Grands Crus to Basel, where you’ll board an identical Viking ship for a week on the Rhine. The Black Forest, the gorgeous old city of Strasbourg and the twisting Rhine Gorge, every corner guarded by a castle, are the setting for the second week, ending in Amsterdam. Book by March 31.

Details Fourteen nights’ full board from £5,890pp including drinks with meals, excursions, wi-fi, tips and flights, departing on July 14 (viking.co.uk)

8. The Ganges and the Golden Triangle

The Taj Mahal in Agra GETTY IMAGES

Uniworld’s in-depth cruise and land tour whisks you effortlessly from the highlights of the Golden Triangle — New Delhi, Agra and Jaipur — to a week-long foray along the Ganges on the sumptuous Ganges Voyager II. This itinerary mixes big hitters such as Gandhi’s tomb, the exquisite Taj Mahal (at sunset and sunrise) and the “Pink City” of Jaipur with the more serene life along the Ganges. Here, riverside villages, temples, artisan workshops and yoga on deck are the order of the day.

Details Twelve nights’ all-inclusive from £6,199pp including five in Oberoi hotels and seven on board, all excursions, tips and flights, departing on September 16 (uniworld.com)

9. Soulful Nile

The Temple of Karnak at Luxor GETTY IMAGES

Amawaterways is offering a Nile cruise with a difference as part of its “Soulful” series of holidays, focusing on black history in Egypt alongside all the classic activities such as the Valley of the Kings, the Pyramids and the mammoth Karnak Temple. There’s a private visit to the tomb of Queen Nefertari as well as a trip to a Nubian village, with lectures and entertainment tailored to the voyage’s theme. You’ll sail on the 72-passenger AmaDahlia, which has a pool, spa and two restaurants serving international and Egyptian cuisine.

Details Eleven nights from £4,322pp including seven full-board on the ship, with mealtime drinks, and four B&B in Cairo, as well as tours (amawaterways.co.uk). Fly to Cairo

The best cruise adventures for 2024

10. The Danube Delta

Cruise from the delta to Budapest with Saga GETTY IMAGES

Beyond Budapest, the Danube cuts through the Carpathian Mountains as it flows slowly to its vast delta on the Black Sea. A cruise from the delta to Budapest on Saga’s sleek new Spirit of the Danube takes you through the turbulent history of the Balkans as well as some spectacular scenery, not least the towering rock walls of the Iron Gates Gorge. You’ll start with a night in Bucharest, all belle époque architecture and oversized palaces, and end with two nights in Budapest. And if it’s your first cruise and you don’t like it, Saga promises you’ll get your money back.

Details Ten nights’ all-inclusive from £3,124pp, including three tours and flights, departing on July 22 (travel.saga.co.uk)



Advertisement

Sign up for our Times Travel newsletter and follow us on Instagram and X