In 1856, Joseph Baum and William Dallas, newspaper publishers in British Guiana (now Guyana), printed a small run of stamps. They were helping out the nation’s postmaster after a ship from Great Britain unexpectedly brought a tenth of the stamps required by the colony. Little did Baum and Dallas know that one of these new designs, the bright magenta rectangle, decorated with an image of a three-masted ship and the colony’s Latin motto, would eventually become the rarest — and most expensive — stamp in the world. Not only that, but it would inadvertently contribute to the temporary collapse of one of the biggest names in stamp collecting, Stanley Gibbons.

Once additional official stamps arrived from Britain to British Guiana, the locally printed examples were removed from circulation. Rather than being affixed to letters, the magenta stamps had been used to deliver newspapers. These were thrown away more quickly than letters, so the magenta stamps were quickly consigned to oblivion. Except for one. Nearly two decades after it was printed, an example of the 1856 British Guiana 1c Magenta was discovered by Louis Vernon Vaughan, a 12-year-old Scottish schoolboy living in British Guiana, among his uncle’s belongings. The stamp had been clipped at each corner, giving it the distinctive octagonal appearance it retains today. It also bore the scrawl of a postal clerk’s signature. Because Baum and Dallas’s stamps were essentially “homemade”, British Guiana’s postmaster, ETE Dalton, had ordered that each one that was used must be signed by a postal clerk to prevent forgery. Louis quickly sold the stamp to a local collector. Since then it has changed hands between collectors round the world, including the textile heir John E du Pont. In 2021 the shoe designer Stuart Weitzman, who at one point also owned the rarest coin in the world, sold the stamp at auction in 2021 for $8.3 million. The buyer was Stanley Gibbons, the London-based stamp merchant.

The British Guiana 1c Magenta — its purchase in 2021 crippled the stamp merchant Stanley Gibbons

To buy the most expensive stamp in the world, Stanley Gibbons raised a loan from Phoenix Asset Management. The idea was to then sell 80,000 shares in the British Guiana 1c Magenta for £100 each to help to recoup the sale price. However, when the loan and other borrowing finally came due in 2023, Stanley Gibbons declared insolvency. Thanks to a rescue package from Phoenix Asset Management, the company will continue trading, focusing on its traditional strengths and exploring new ways to serve collectors. By moving towards digitisation and expanding into new product areas, such as Pokémon cards, the firm hopes to tap into millennials’ enthusiasm for collecting. “We need to make the hobby attractive to new people, but also to those who are already in it. But the offer is still very antiquated and our audience could have a much richer experience,” says Gary Channon, co-founder and chief investment officer of Phoenix.

The story of the British Guiana 1c Magenta encapsulates much about stamp collecting. For almost as long as there have been stamps there have been stamp collectors. Since the introduction in 1840 of the first adhesive postal stamp, the Penny Black, stamps have been ubiquitous. In just two decades from its introduction, use of the adhesive stamp had spread to 90 countries around the world. Although it might seem that people are sending fewer letters than they were in the 19th century, in 2022 alone the US Postal Service printed 13.8 billion postage stamps.

An 1840 Penny Black on display at Sotheby’s in 2010 GETTY IMAGES

With so many stamps in existence, what makes some more collectible than others? Factors vary depending on age and design. Most collectors start by looking at centring: how the design is positioned on the stamp’s surface. Well-positioned stamps are considered more valuable. Condition can be a factor, in particular the amount of gum that remains on the reverse and the condition of the perforations (if any). Unused complete gum, ie as issued, is the most valuable, as are undamaged perforations. However, relatively poor condition need not be a barrier to a stamp being valuable — provided there are other factors to compensate. The 1c Magenta, for example, is far from mint condition. It had been well used by the time Louis Vernon Vaughan discovered it, and eight of its subsequent owners saw fit to add their own marks to the back of the stamp. What ensures its value is its rarity.

Advertisement

Rarity is the key factor most collectors look for. Some stamps are rare because few of that type have survived; some because few were issued. One reason for small print runs is a flaw in the stamps that is discovered before too many have been printed. Stamps bearing these are known among collectors as errors, freaks and oddities (EFO). Philatelists and collectors recognise several types of error. One is in the colour. In 1996, a canary-yellow stamp from Sweden known as the Treskilling Yellow sold at auction for $2.3 million (nearly $5 million today). It has subsequently been sold a further two times for undisclosed amounts. The problem? In 1855, when the stamp was printed, stamps worth three skillings (a denomination of Swedish currency) were a teal colour and stamps worth eight skillings were yellow. Thus, a yellow stamp worth three skillings was a colour error. No more examples of this stamp are known to exist, although in 2010 Baron Jean-Claude Pierre Ferdinand Gunther Andre and his wife brought a lawsuit against the Clydesdale Bank claiming that they had stored nine more examples of the Treskilling Yellow in a trunk that was left in one of the bank’s vaults. The couple, whose claims were dismissed by the judge for “sheer inherent implausibility”, argued that when they opened the trunk the stamps were gone, and they wanted to be duly compensated.

The Treskilling Yellow sold for $2.3 million in 1996

Errors are also possible in design. At the same time as he sold the 1c Magenta in 2021, Weitzman also sold a set of four stamps still joined together known as the Inverted Jenny plate block. Described by the auction house Sotheby’s as “the most valuable item in United States Philately”, the plate block reached almost $5 million. The stamps had been printed in 1918 for the new air mail service and the design fittingly included an image of a biplane, the Curtiss JN-4, or “Jenny”. Since the stamp included two colours of ink — for a blue plane and a red frame — each sheet had to be passed through the printing press twice. This type of production could be particularly susceptible to design flaws due to manual error. In the case of the block sold by Weitzman, the plane is printed upside down because the sheet was passed through the press the wrong way on its second run. While several inverted sheets were discovered during production of the stamp, only one seems to have made its way into circulation. From this, several examples survive singly and in a block like Weitzman’s.

One of the stamps in the Inverted Jenny plate block, with the aircraft mistakenly printed upside down GETTY IMAGES

Forgery has long been an issue for the world of stamp collecting. One of the best-known forgers was Jean de Sperati, an Italian who was tried in 1948 for forgery, but whose work was of such quality that many of his creations remain undetected in collections. In some cases, forgeries were not made for financial gain. During the first and second world wars both sides forged examples of their opponents’ postage stamps to use for propaganda or espionage purposes. Operation Cornflakes in the Second World War involved the OSS (the forerunner of the CIA) following Britain’s lead in forging German stamps to add to mail that was dropped over Germany. One American innovation: transforming the Fuhrer’s profile into a death’s head, with the words “Futsches Reich” (“Ruined Reich”) replacing “Deutsches Reich” (“German Reich”).

A fake stamp, right, printed as part of Operation Cornflakes in the Second World War

Some collectors and dealers have gone to great lengths to increase the value of their stamps. In 1971, the Apollo 15 mission blasted off for the fourth manned mission to the moon. On board alongside the three astronauts were 400 postal covers (envelopes bearing cancelled stamps). The astronauts had made an agreement with a West German stamp dealer to take the stamps into space and onto the moon in exchange for $7,000 each (about $50,000 today), but without Nasa’s knowledge. Some of the envelopes were then sold for $1,500 each (about $10,500 today). When the astronauts’ deal became known, the ensuing scandal resulted in them returning the money and losing their spots in the Apollo programme. Alongside the illicit stamps onboard Apollo 15 were some that Nasa did know about. On his final trip to the surface of the moon, Commander David Scott postmarked two stamps of a set designed to honour ten years of the space programme. At the same time, the US Postal Service issued the stamps back on Earth. Nasa had attempted to have stamps postmarked on the moon by the earlier Apollo 11 mission. However, perhaps distracted by being the first humans to set foot on the moon’s surface, Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin forgot about the envelope until they were on their way back to Earth.

One of the infamous Apollo 15 postal covers

Sponsored

As with so many collectors, Stuart Weitzman’s interest in stamps started during boyhood, in his case when he was laid up with a full leg cast. Other famous names with an interest in stamps include Charlie Chaplin, Amelia Earhart, John Lennon and Freddie Mercury. The Rolling Stones member Ronnie Wood reportedly took up stamp collecting as part of his recovery from alcoholism. Somewhat unsurprisingly, since the profile of the monarch features on every British stamp, one of the most valuable stamp collections is that of the royal family. The Royal Philatelic Collection has been built up by different British royals since the 1860s. King George V was a keen philatelist, organising the collection into more than 300 red albums (which have been added to by subsequent monarchs). Before becoming king, he had even acted as the honorary vice-president of the Royal Philatelic Society. Launched in 1869, it is the oldest philatelic organisation in the world, and its library is an important resource for anyone interested in the history and collecting of stamps. Based in the City of London, it has more than 2,000 members.

Queen Elizabeth explores the Royal Philatelic society collection, 2019 GETTY IMAGES

Although modern printing methods and digital innovations such as barcodes reduce the likelihood of flaws, as the first stamps bearing the image of George’s great-grandson King Charles III roll off the presses, collectors will be eagerly waiting to see if any unforeseen errors make them instant collectibles.

Where to buy stamps

Royal Mail

The national postal service sells special and collectible sets of stamps. The latest celebrates the Spice Girls.

Stanley Gibbons

After the rescue deal, the stamp merchant founded in 1856 continues to be an important destination for stamp collectors.

Advertisement

Auction houses

Sotheby’s offers stamps for auction, while Bonhams and Christie’s have specialist subsidiaries.