Chilly February might not inspire many holiday ideas but it’s one of the best times of the year to travel, letting you take advantage of the cheaper shoulder season prices and fewer crowds — ski destinations excepted. In Europe and beyond, big festivals and events mark the carnival season before Lent. If it’s guaranteed warmth and sunny weather you’re looking for, you’ll need to travel a bit further and read up before you set your sights on the shade of a particular palm tree — tropical destinations can vary immensely when it comes to their wet and dry seasons. Read on for the best places to visit in February, including winter sun escapes and long-haul destinations that shine at this time of year.

Main photo: the village of A in Norway’s Lofoten Islands (Getty Images)

This article contains affiliate links, which may earn us revenue

1. New Orleans, US

Why go in February? For the biggest of parties in the home of good times

Old-world streets decked out in green, purple and gold announce the arrival of Mardi Gras in New Orleans. The two weeks leading up to Shrove Tuesday see a crescendo of parades and parties by krewes (carnival clubs), with lots of floats, jazz and body paint. It’s a busy time to visit, but much less humid than in Louisiana’s summer months, when temperatures are generally in the high 20s. You’ll find a more local vibe to Mardi Gras away from the heritage facades and tourist traps of the French Quarter. Henry Howard Hotel is a townhouse dating from 1867, with a classical colonnade and part-contemporary design, one block back from a big parade route along St Charles Avenue.

New Orleans’s French Quarter during Mardi Gras (Getty Images)

2. Koh Samui, Thailand

Why go in February? For a later start to perfect beach weather

Koh Samui and its neighbouring islands in the southern Gulf of Thailand are at their driest in February, after a short but intense wet season from October to December. You’ll find some of the biggest full moon parties on the island of Koh Pha-ngan, while the northeast of this jungle-clad island is quieter, as is smaller Koh Tao to the north, best for diving and snorkelling. Koh Samui itself is a gateway to both and Thailand’s second-largest island after Phuket, so there’s plenty of variety in its beaches, activities and hotels. All-villa accommodation on a small private island just off the northeast shore of Koh Samui makes Cape Fahn Hotel a luxurious choice.

Lamai Beach on Koh Samui (Alamy)

3. Lofoten Islands, Norway

Why go in February? For a meeting of land and sea under the aurora

It takes only three months for the Lofoten Islands, above the Arctic Circle, to catch their first glimpse of the midnight sun after many weeks of 24-hour night or twilight, and February sits in the middle of the period when it all starts to shift. This is the month to balance having enough darkness to hope for a sighting of the northern lights, with at least a few hours of sun to light up these majestic islands, where mountain ranges meet the ocean. A highway threads along the chain as far as the concisely named village of A, passing old fishing settlements where wooden cabins perch on stilts at the water’s edge. Get a taste of a fisherman’s life in the days of old Norway by staying in one of the 38 cabins at Svinoya Rorbuer in the town of Svolvaer.

The northern lights illuminate the Lofoten Islands (Alamy)

4. Baja California, Mexico

Why go in February? For extraordinary wildlife encounters

This is a generally dry and slightly cooler time of year across Mexico. Winter sun aside, the best reason to visit in February is to catch some incredible animal migrations. Millions of monarch butterflies are getting ready to fly north after their winter stay in the forested mountains of the Michoacan-Mexico State border. And in the lagoons on the coast of Baja California, grey whales come right up to visitor boats in some of the world’s most well-managed wildlife encounters. You’ll find both high-end resorts and abundant nature reserves along this 700-mile peninsula. In the Baja Sur town of Loreto, which is often a base for whale-watching trips, La Mision Loreto Hotel is a modern outpost with hacienda-style touches, right on the shore of the Gulf of California.

Whale-watching in Baja California (Alamy)

5. Ari Atoll, Maldives

Why go in February? For beach time and underwater discoveries in the best conditions

The almost 1,200 tropical islands of the Maldives experience their driest month in February. They are grouped into 26 atolls that lie in an elongated loop, like necklaces within a necklace, suspended in the midst of the Indian Ocean. Whale sharks tend to move to the eastern atolls around December and back west again in May, but at Ari Atoll on the western side these gentle giants can be spotted year-round and March is a great time for diving visibility generally and high season for escapes to white-sand beaches. Well placed for spotting whale sharks and manta rays, Lux South Ari Atoll has overwater villas and thatched beach bungalows on a mile-long island, plus eight restaurants and plenty of family options.

A whale shark off Ari Atoll (Alamy)

6. Valais, Switzerland

Why go in February? For hitting the ski runs in the most Alpine of settings

Assorted European half-term holidays can make Alpine ski resorts busy in February and this month is typically the best for finding powdery snow. If Switzerland is the heart of the Alps, then the canton of Valais is it in microcosm: French-speaking in the west, German-speaking in the east, with the pinnacle of the Matterhorn almost halfway. Zermatt, Verbier and Crans-Montana are among the best-known resorts, but under-the-radar alternatives include Grimentz, which has kept much of its traditional wooden architecture, and the valley of the Lotschental — of interest even to non-skiers for its slightly scary Tschaggata carnival with its frightening masks. The 32-room Hôtel Alpina in Grimentz has an ideal location between the two main ski lift stations in the village, with an unfussy modern Alpine look inside and cycling facilities for the summer season.

The Tschaggata mask-wearing carnival in Lotschental, Valais (Alamy)

7. Rio de Janeiro, Brazil

Why go in February? For samba and sequins in a spectacularly set city

While the pre-Lenten carnival season is generally chilly in its European home, in Brazil the revelry happens at the height of summer. It’s a favourite Brazilian holiday time despite bursts of rain in much of the country — apart from the northeast, where Salvador and Recife have their own proud carnival traditions. If you’re looking for bucket-list spectacle, Rio de Janeiro’s show tops the bill, whether you score a ticket to watch the dazzling parade in the 90,000-seat Sambadrome or join in with the beating of drums at neighbourhood parties, watched over by Sugarloaf Mountain and the statue of Christ the Redeemer.

A carnival parade at the Sambadrome in Rio de Janeiro (Alamy)

8. Luxor, Egypt

Why go in February? To follow in ancient footsteps along the banks of the Nile

Winter in Egypt means packing something a little warmer to wear outside in the evenings. Summer temperatures regularly top 40C, so if your sights are set more on temples and pyramids than diving in the Red Sea, go in February for pleasant conditions under the desert sun. The pay-off gets bigger the further up the Nile you go and in Luxor (annual rainfall: less than 1mm) you’ll find an outstanding concentration of historic sites in and around one of ancient Egypt’s capitals. February is the time to explore the Valley of the Kings without feeling as parched as the mummies its painted tombs once held. Overlooking the Nile, the Sofitel Winter Palace is an atmospheric piece of Luxor history, built in 1886 and visited by Agatha Christie, Winston Churchill and Tutankhamun expedition sponsor Lord Carnarvon.

Ancient monuments in Luxor (Getty Images)

9. Quebec, Canada

Why go in February? For joie de vivre in sub-zero temperatures

It’s the second-coldest month of the year in Quebec, but the province’s inhabitants are ready to party. In the capital, Quebec City, the Winter Carnival runs over ten days, usually in early February, and features parades, snow sculptures and winter sports such as ice canoeing. Overlapping with this, La Poutine Week glorifies the national dish of Canada — chips, cheese curds and gravy — in a festival that began in Montreal and has spread nationwide. Outside the cities, now is also the season for skiing (downhill and cross-country) in resorts such as Mont-Tremblant. Quebec City’s landmark par excellence since 1893, the Fairmont Le Château Frontenac looks even more splendid with snow on its turrets — it’s possibly the world’s most photographed hotel.

The Winter Carnival in Quebec (Alamy)

10. Palawan, Philippines

Why go in February? For tropical island-hopping at the most comfortable time of year

With more than 7,000 islands, the Philippines defies easy categorisation, but it’s true that apart from along a narrow eastern fringe, February sees the lowest rainfall of the year. It’s still high season and there are fewer tourists than in the New Year period, plus there’s a host of celebrations including Baguio’s flower festival, making February a great time to explore. Inland attractions include the Banaue Rice Terraces and the Chocolate Hills of Bohol, but the call of white sands and turquoise waters speaks loudest. The province of Palawan has world-class wreck diving and — in the Bacuit Archipelago around El Nido — a wonderland of limestone islets sheltering secret coves. One of a small group of hotels dotted around northern Palawan, El Nido Resorts Miniloc Island has rooms in thatched cottages perched on stilts between sheltered waters and green cliffs.

A child at the the Panagbenga flower festival in Baguio (Alamy)

11. Valletta, Malta

Why go in February? For parade floats in a superb fortress city on the Med

The week before Ash Wednesday brings out the crowds, in what is otherwise Malta’s low season, for carnival celebrations across the Mediterranean island nation. Small but rich in historic sights, capital Valletta is the centre of the action, with larger-than-life floats featuring colourful and often satirical figures and dancers in equally eye-popping get-up. Other festivities include the Nadur Carnival in Gozo, with more macabre themes. Costumed merriment aside, it’s a mild time in Malta, with temperatures around the low teens; not exactly beach weather, but a fine choice for some winter sun while staying (just) in Europe. By the waterfront in Senglea, one of the Three Cities across from Valletta, the Cugo Gran Macina Grand Harbour has 21 suavely contemporary suites inside a 16th-century bastion.

The carnival in Valletta (Alamy)

12. Eastern Cape, South Africa

Why go in February? For inspiring scenery and safaris in South Africa’s second-largest province

Summer in South Africa is both the driest time of year around Cape Town in the southwest and the wettest as you go northeast towards Johannesburg and the Kruger National Park. The picture is more diverse in the province of the Eastern Cape and variety — not just in climate — is key to its appeal. Its boundaries encompass coastal trails at the eastern end of the Garden Route, the semi-desert surrounds of the Karoo inland and wildlife-spotting, including all (with luck) of the big five at Addo Elephant National Park and other preserves. The Wild Coast to the east is green and rugged as the name suggests. Woodall Country House & Spa is ideally positioned for trips to see Addo’s elephants and has spacious country estate-style rooms on a working citrus farm.

Ostriches in Little Karoo (Alamy)

13. Puntarenas, Costa Rica

Why go in February? For rainforest wildlife and unspoiled sandy beaches

Central America’s ecotourism star gets tropical downpours throughout the year in most places (hence its resplendent rainforest) but if you’re on the Pacific coast, February is a drier time — busy, but less so than January or Easter. Puntarenas Province covers most of Costa Rica’s western shore, including the tip of the Nicoya Peninsula, with relaxed beach vibes around the town of Montezuma, and further along, two of the country’s top national parks: Manuel Antonio (small and accessible, and very biodiverse) and more remote but stunning Corcovado on the Osa Peninsula. Between Manuel Antonio and Corcovado national parks, Oxygen Jungle Villas has ocean views from the infinity pool in its green hillside perch and a Balinese-inspired vibe.

Sunset on the Osa Peninsula in Puntarenas (Alamy)

14. Tasmania, Australia

Why go in February? For late summer days on Australia’s island state

The last days of January signal “back to school” across Australia, but temperatures remain near their summer highs well into February, accompanied by tropical rains in northern parts. At the other end of the continent, the island of Tasmania is at its sunniest and its landscapes are at their most inviting, from the vivid colours of the beaches in the Bay of Fires, to the epic vistas of Cradle Mountain. Add to that a mix of both familiar Australian critters and locally endemic wildlife (wallabies, wombats, Tasmanian devils), food and wine trails, plus cultural discoveries in the capital Hobart, and Australia’s outlier state promises a well-rounded holiday. On the east coast en route from Hobart to the Bay of Fires, the Piermont Retreat is a beachside collection of stone cottages accompanied by a fine farm-to-table restaurant.

Bay of Fires, Tasmania (Getty Images)

15. Bwindi Impenetrable Forest, Uganda

Why go in February? For gorilla encounters and other wonders of nature

Most of Uganda gets two dry(ish) seasons — December to February and June to September — and although the first is the wetter of the two, it’s also a less busy time to visit. Thinner vegetation at the end of this first lull in the rains means easier wildlife-spotting. Uganda’s Western Region is home to many of the country’s biggest draws, from the elephants and lions of Murchison Falls National Park in the north, to the otherworldly flora of the Rwenzori Mountains and the Bwindi Impenetrable Forest in the south. Book well ahead for guided treks in the prime sanctuary for mountain gorillas. At the southern edge of the Bwindi Impenetrable Forest, the Rushaga Gorilla Lodge has comfortable cottages part-way in style between log cabins and safari tents.

A young mountain gorilla in Bwindi Impenetrable Forest (Alamy)

16. Venice, Italy

Why go in February? For costumes and masquerades

For two weeks each February, Venice comes alive for carnival season. There are free and ticketed events throughout the city, ranging from concerts and operas to acrobatic performances and treasure hunts. At the centre of the action is Piazza San Marco, where there are daily costume shows. For visitors, getting into the spirit of things means dressing up in elaborate costumes and masks — both are available to hire, though expect prices to be steep. And if you’re planning to attend one of the balls, plan well ahead. For some respite away from the action, stay at the JW Marriott Venice Resort & Spa, which sits on its own private island and has shuttles to the mainland.

A masked carnival goer at St Mark’s Square, Venice (Alamy)

17. Vienna, Austria

Why go in February? For a city break without the crowds

With temperatures still around a chilly zero, February is not the most obvious time of the year to visit Vienna, nor is it the most popular. But that’s the whole point: you get to enjoy this beauty of a baroque capital without all the crowds. Even better, the coffee houses it’s famous for are perfect for escaping the cold, while its world-class museums will provide plenty to see. For those who want to enjoy a taste of the high life, February is also the tail end of the ball season, with events held in the City Hall, the Vienna State Opera and even in the Hofburg palace. The Amauris Vienna is a gorgeous Relais & Châteaux property just down the road from the opera house.

St Stephen’s Cathedral at Stephansplatz in Vienna (Getty Images)

Take me there

Inspired to go on holiday in February but yet to book your trip? Here are the best packages from Tui and Jet2 Holidays, as well as the best tours from our trusted partners.