I was winding my watch recently when a female friend looked across and asked why I didn’t avoid having to do it by getting a battery-powered one.

“Because only good watches have mechanical movements,” I responded smugly.

“What’s good about a watch that stops if you don’t wind it?” she parried. “Mine’s got a battery, it hasn’t had a new one for four years, it never stops and it keeps perfect time.”

There was a certain irritating logic in her thinking, but the fact that quartz watches don’t need attention, keep accurate time and are almost invariably cheaper than mechanical ones doesn’t make them better. It makes them worse. In a man’s mind it does, at any rate — which raises the question of why men are generally more fixated than women on owning, buying, collecting and studying expensive watches.

Harry Truman in 1949 PHOTOQUEST/GETTY IMAGES

Ask most people, and they’ll conclude that it’s because men are born hard-wired to like mechanical things and have an innate “geek gene” that makes them want to possess them. But according to Dr Cathrine Jansson-Boyd, that’s nonsense — and she should know since she’s an associate professor of consumer psychology at Anglia Ruskin University in Cambridge and has spent 25 years studying what drives people to desire things.

Advertisement

“I have never read a truly plausible study to say that there is really a biological difference,” she says. “In reality we are drawn to different things as adults because of the way we are formed in society — as soon as a boy baby is born he’s dressed in blue clothes and will continue to be orientated towards ‘boy-like things’ throughout his early life. Being directed towards gadgety objects is part of that.”

And once the “gadget” seed has been sown in the male brain, an expensive watch soon manifests itself as a must-have. “Generally speaking, men are more inclined to show off than women when it comes to status symbols,” Jansson-Boyd says. “And key features of a status symbol are what it tells people one meets. How well it is constructed, and how much it costs — a good-quality watch that cost a lot of money also looks as though it did — fulfils all those criteria very nicely.”

Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev in 1986 MIKE SARGENT/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

Adrian Hailwood, a watch historian, industry consultant and author, agrees. “Certain steel sports watches became very difficult to obtain from retailers during the pandemic years and prices of as-new, pre-owned ones rose dramatically,” he says. “If other watch enthusiasts saw you wearing one, it was a signal that you had the necessary connections and cash to get hold of it.” It’s not unusual for wealthy people — think politicians or industry heads — to wear an obviously inexpensive watch as a way of demonstrating that they are “of the people”, he adds. “Then there are the real nerds, the ones who wear something cheap but rare [such as a MoonSwatch or Studio Underdog] so that other nerds will see it and form the opinion that they are hip and in touch with the zeitgeist but not in a flash way.”

• The best watches to gift this Christmas

• 2023’s most stylish dress watches

• The secret art of the watchmaker

Sponsored

Hailwood thinks that the notion of collecting watches is more a “man thing” than a “woman thing” in the same way that collecting stamps, coins, wine and classic cars seems to appeal more to the male psyche. “Look at the majority of internet forums relating to pastimes similar to watch-collecting and the number of women you will find discussing the minutiae of those subjects is very small compared with the number of men,” he says.

But that’s not because they are more interested in how things work, according to Amy Turner, a watch specialist who has worked for 13 years in the industry, mostly at IWC, and has a master’s degree in psychology. “The fascination men have with the detail is simply down to the fact that they don’t have that many objects that they can use to express their personalities — and when they are considering making an expensive purchase, they want to hear about the technical aspects to understand what they are buying and to justify the outlay,” she says. “Most men would go along to buy an IWC with a rational outlook and a preconceived notion of which one they wanted and why they wanted it — until their emotional trigger was activated and they became unable to resist buying the watch that, perhaps, had the most interesting backstory that they thought would make them seem like a more adventurous person, or that was generally regarded as ‘cool’. It certainly made me think that the idea of men being more rational than women isn’t entirely accurate.”

Frank Sinatra in 1962 BETTMANN/GETTY IMAGES

Hailwood believes that the attraction of hefty sports watches is a reflection of modern social status. “In the 1970s, for example, work involved actual physical labour for many more men,” he says. “As a result, watch marketing was often geared towards those who aspired to the sort of refinement and opulence that represented the antithesis of their daily lives. Now, however, we tend to work in far more luxurious surroundings, yet you often see men wearing dive watches that are waterproof down to 300 metres. It’s a way of saying: ‘I am macho, I am technical and I am adventurous. And even if modern life doesn’t allow me enough time to do adventurous things, the watch shows I would if I could.’ ”

Ahmed “Shary” Rahman, an insatiable collector, says: “I think a lot of it is to do with the fact that most men don’t really wear jewellery other than cufflinks and, perhaps, tie-pins. Although the things that interest me are the stories behind them, the aesthetics and the mechanisms — I started with chronographs and moved on from there to greater, and therefore more expensive, complications. The mechanisms to me are very important — they are expressions of art and craftsmanship, but also the beating heart of the watch that brings it alive.” He usually has “20 or 30 watches on the go, and if the love affair ends with a particular piece, I let it go and try to use the money to upgrade to something better. It’s all part of the fun of collecting.”

Advertisement

In contrast, Jansson-Boyd has only one watch — an Omega that she was given by her husband. “It’s a really lovely watch and it means a lot to me, but it was very clearly chosen by a man,” she says. “I would have picked something different.” Enough said.