Hollywood celebrities are not normally the easiest people to host as your first house guests. So when Orlando Bloom and Katy Perry asked if they could take over the House at Lizard Island soon after it opened in 2022, its owner, Steve Wilson, was slightly hesitant to agree. He’d taken 25 years to get his dream house built on the Barrier Reef’s northernmost inhabited island and the decorators had just moved out. But Bloom was filming in Australia and the couple really wanted it. So he took the chance.

It was then that his problems started. Not because they didn’t like it — but because they didn’t want to leave. “Eventually I had to say enough is enough,” the straight-talking Australian says, laughing. “I mean, it was my house. They’d booked for five days and were there 15.”

Katy Perry and Orlando Bloom took over the House at Lizard Island soon after it opened in 2022 GETTY IMAGES

Australia isn’t short of superlative properties to rent. The country is littered with architectural blockbusters on beaches, in forests, out in the middle of red-dust nowhere. But Lizard Island House, as the stars were quick to realise, is unlike anywhere else: possibly the most bonzer bolt hole down under.

That’s because the brutalist, Jenga-like configuration of weatherproof concrete and copper is perched on a finger of granite surrounded by nothing but raw Aussie nature. Look out from the sunloungers on the roof terrace and spot not just one totally private white-sand, boulder-strewn beach but two. Lounge about in one of three enormous outdoor baths amid eucalyptus and ferns as birds and dragonflies flit about your head, or hang out by your cliffside pool or yoga platform, where only the dazzling blues of the Coral Sea — and the reflected spangles of the Milky Way at night — stretch out before you.

The house was constructed using weatherproof concrete and copper ELISE HASSEY

That nature takes centre stage in this house is because, Wilson says, “Lizard Island is not only one of the most beautiful islands on Earth, but the only inhabited one on the outer Barrier Reef, which is one of the seven natural wonders of the world. Even David Attenborough called it his favourite place on the planet. So nature had to be our focus.”

Advertisement

Before it was made a national park in 1937 and its waters a protected marine zone from 1974, the island was used for more than 4,000 years as a sacred initiation site by the Dingaal people, who left petrified evidence of their seafood feasts scattered amid the hills.

A private beach set aside for the inhabitants ELISE HASSEY

When Captain Cook landed on the isle in 1770 and climbed its hilltops to find a passage through the treacherous reef, the only ground creatures he found were populations of lizards — hence the name he gave the 1,013-hectare granite outcrop. The place was so wild, as the 12-year-old Wilson discovered when he first came here 200 years after Cook to camp with his family, that “the only person about was the caretaker — a long, 6ft 4in lanky fella and the first butt-naked male I’d ever seen”.

Almost 50 years after a consortium led by Wilson’s father built a little eco-resort here — which still survives, under different ownership — the island’s latest accommodation couldn’t be more polished.

A protected veranda that opens out from an open-plan bar-cum-living room ADAM GIBSON

In the main two-storey concrete house, whose floor-to-ceiling windows are protected by vertical louvres of copper, contemporary open-plan living spaces flow into three spacious suites dedicated to Captain Cook, Mary Watson (an English-born fisherman’s wife who lived beside a beach in the 1800s) and Attenborough (who stayed on the island to film Blue Planet II). In the kitchen, work surfaces are finished in spectacular green Italian marble, and bathrooms are fitted with Scandi-style furniture hewn from glowing Papua New Guinea rosewood. The wine fridges contain bottles from Australia’s leading vineyards and the bars are stocked with premier spirits. Even the Bemboka towels and gowns are silky soft, the bodycare products heady with the scents of local botanicals and the thoughtful tray of suncreams coral-friendly.

Sponsored

The clincher, though, for paparazzi-shy holidaymakers such as Bloom and Perry is that it’s not only the house that’s totally private. It’s the beaches on either side, the tender for exploring the shoreline, the next-door cottage for massages (or extra guests in a fourth suite) and the services of the charmingly chatty host Paul Steinfort, who has taken care of resort guests from Kate Hudson and Matt Lucas to Will Smith and Jeff Bezos.

The Attenborough suite ELISE HASSEY

With Steinfort on call 24/7, you can do pretty much whatever you want. Hike up Cook’s Look, the peak from which the explorer identified his escape route, or at lunchtime get the boat captain to whizz you over to the sand spit for a lobster picnic. Go for a snorkel with turtles at Watson’s Bay, a dive amid luminescent corals on MacGillivray Reef or a swim over century-old clams in Mermaid Cove.

Or you can just take advantage of the most unexpected treat of all on an island in the middle of nowhere: a talented private chef who will whip up sushi if you fancy, or homemade crab lasagne or slow-cooked crackling apple pork, followed by — if you’re clad in a kaftan rather than a bikini — a finger of white-chocolate parfait on dark cocoa “sand”.

The main central spiral staircase at the heart of the house ADAM GIBSON

For my stay, thirtysomething Brisbane-based Matt Jenkins delivers dishes — on the moonlit rooftop, at a candlelit dining table, on the beach beside a blazing brazier — so perfectly executed that his name would be in lights in London or Paris or New York. Which are the cities to which his British co-chef, the 31-year-old Kyle Dixon, might soon be travelling. After their stay, Bloom and Perry were so bowled over by Dixon’s cuisine that they asked him to come with them as their private chef wherever they go. Potentially yet another thing for Steve Wilson to huff and puff about…

From A$18,000 (£9,460) a night for two to A$30,000 (£15,770) for eight; thehouseatlizard.com