I never had any inclination to go skiing. Holidays should be spent drinking pina coladas on hot beaches, perhaps venturing out to dinner at a stretch. Why would you choose to spend your down-time freezing and hurtling down a mountain? Skiing, it seemed to me, was for rich, glamorous people who’ve been doing it since they were three: royals, Bond girls and Made in Chelsea stars. Not for the likes of me, an unglamorous, unfit 42-year-old. And OK — I admit it — I also didn’t want to go skiing because I was afraid of it. Of the speed, of the heights, of the humiliation and of the inevitable pain when I crashed and broke my leg.

Then, I became familiar with the concept of something called après-ski, which seemed to consist of drinking a shocking amount and having sex on a bearskin rug. I got to know people who, despite not being posh, went on skiing holidays every year in groups, renting gorgeous ski lodges in snow-capped mountains. Secretly, I wanted to join them. Still, I worried skiing wasn’t for me.

And so it was with mixed feelings that I booked a trip to Switzerland the week before Christmas for my first skiing holiday, certain that I’d return with a broken wrist at least.

Katie Glass hits the slopes in Switzerland KATIE GLASS

In preparation I arranged three basic lessons at a local dry ski slope. It was only as I approached the Mendip Activity Centre (mendip.co.uk) that a terrible memory flashed into my head of myself as a teenager, coming here decades ago on a school trip, and spending an hour skidding on the bristly slope and crashing into barriers in front of my laughing classmates. Learning to ski, I remembered, could not just be painful, but there was the added potential for humiliation.

Luke, my teacher this time, had the bleached, tousled hair of a surfer and the easy confidence of a sporty man in his twenties. But he proved extremely patient as he coaxed me into my boots and skis, up the slope, and into the awkward pigeon-toed position of the snow plough, which felt unnaturally like trying to do the twist with my knees tied together.

Advertisement

Despite Luke’s gentle encouragement, I froze. Every part of my body screamed that throwing myself downhill was a bad idea. It might not be too late to cancel the ski trip and book a nice week in Marbella instead.

But by some miracle, I made myself inch forwards and cruised — wow, several inches! — downhill, and managed to do it again and again. I made it to the end of the first lesson without falling over. Two more lessons later I was … not confident exactly, but capable of moving downhill without screaming and with a basic grasp of ski etiquette: that is, get out of the way before the next person comes up behind you on the lift.

Chalets in Wengen ALAMY

Two weeks later I am heading to Wengen by train from Zurich, passing through Interlaken, perched between the glacial blue lakes Thun and Brienz, through pine trees whose branches were heavy with snow, whizzing towards the white-whipped peaks of the Alps, which looked as bright and high as clouds.

Wengen is a mountain village perched beneath the triumvirate peaks of the Mönch (4,107m), the Jungfrau (4,158m) and the Eiger (3,970m), the north face of which is the notoriously difficult and potentially deathly climb.

Sponsored

The village, at 1,274m, hangs on a steep cliff overlooking the Lauterbrunnen valley. From my balcony at the Hotel Maya Caprice, I looked down over a snowy scene of twinkling chalets. Wengen is car-free so instead of the rumbling Porsches of the super-rich, you hear only the bells of horse carts and the odd hum of electric vehicles.

It is, arguably, the birthplace of skiing as we know it, home to the Downhill Only (DHO) club founded in 1925 by visiting British skiers who used the cog railway to access steeper terrain, and to race the Kandahar Ski Club, which had formed in nearby Mürren the previous year.

The DHO still flourishes today as a contact point for British expat families wanting to find lessons for their children or people to drink with, for racers, ski tourers and holiday skiers.

• Ten of the most snowsure ski resorts in Europe

• Skiing for beginners: essential tips for your first trip

Advertisement

The resort is not glitzy like Courchevel and Verbier, or a hub for extreme skiing nuts like Chamonix. It’s a family destination at heart, which maintains its old charm: a tiny Alpine town of shuttered windows, where bakers sell gingerbread houses and everywhere smells of cinnamon.

Having never been to the mountains in winter before (why would I when I could fly to a beach?) I enjoy seeing how ski-possessed the town seems in snowy times. Everywhere people are eating lunch in salopettes, drinking at bars in thermal vests, and banging around the Co-op in ski boots. In designer shops the windows display only ski clothes. It’s all new to me.

The downside is that soon I too will have to ski. I’ve forgotten everything I learnt in Somerset. And in my raspberry ski suit I feel less snow bunny and more like a dog wearing shoes.

I struggle under the weight of poles, skis, helmet, goggles, gloves to catch the cable car up to Männlichen, a 2,343m mountain. Conditions are less than ideal. The visibility is so poor that up on the mountain I don’t only miss the spectacular 360-degree view but can barely see a few metres ahead. I slip around, wind hitting my cheeks, the blizzarding snow pelting my face. I’m reminded of the film Alive (which has been remade as Society of the Snow), of the true story of a plane crashing in the Andes, and the survivors having to eat the dead to stay alive (luckily I’ve been promised a cosy mountain hut lunch instead).

Katie Glass warmed up with a plate of raclette GETTY IMAGES

With trepidation, I follow my instructor Sean McCarthy to the nursery slope, awkwardly assuming my snowplough position, and on Sean’s command uneasily launch myself downhill. Miraculously, I skid forward but don’t fall.

It’s surprising how, rather like learning to drive, a series of awkward movements suddenly clicks semi-fluidly into place. Sliding down the nursery slope again and again, I think I might almost be having fun. Sean, with wild optimism, decides to let me try a blue run.

• Best ski resorts for beginners

Advertisement

At first it seems OK. I rush forward — fast, fast … then suddenly too fast, skidding out of control and careering towards a pair of small children before crashing — thankfully — to the ground. At least I discover that falling into powder soft snow isn’t nearly as painful as I thought it might be. I haven’t broken anything, or anyone, yet.

After the lesson we stop at Spycher Bar, a wooden chalet whirling with Swiss polka music and serving hot chocolate and schnapps. Again, there’s that feeling — sitting here on the mountain, snow sparkling around me, I’m almost enjoying myself.

The next day we head to Kleine Scheidegg, a mountain pass at 2,061m that faces the Eiger, and across to the Jungfrau, the highest point accessible by railway in Europe. I take an afternoon off and ride the 150-year-old train to a viewing platform at 3,454m, a spot visited by Turner and Byron before me.

The next day Sean suggests we try another blue run. This seems like a terrible idea to me. After yesterday’s effort (and fall), muscles ache that I didn’t know existed. I have barely rounded the first corner when I realise I’ve totally lost my confidence, but it’s too late, the only way back is down.

Later I will exaggerate to friends about how much I skied on my own, neglecting to mention that Sean held my poles most of the way. Yet it was petrifying, electrifying fun to whizz down a mountain, pines rushing past, cold mountain air fresh on my face, gliding, almost flying.

I did fall, again and again, on the baby slope, the easy blues, and most embarrassingly, coming off the lifts, when Sean had to carry me out of the way.

But I realised the trick to gaining confidence is to fall and discover falling is not that bad.

Advertisement

That evening, I head out to eat raclette and drink a lovely Swiss Fendant white wine in a toasty barbecue hut decked with reindeer skins — a unique dining experience in the grounds of the Alpine Hotel. As I finish the meal — and this isn’t just down to the flavoured schnapps I’m choosing from a rainbow-coloured selection — I am astounded to find myself wondering when I might ski again (though not at the Mendip dry slope). Perhaps the Alps, and not just Marbella’s beaches, were for me after all.

Katie Glass was a guest of Switzerland Tourism (myswitzerland.com); Jungfrau Ski Region, which has a six-day lift pass for £355 (beginners’ area free; wengen.swiss); STS Swiss travel service (three days’ unlimited rail pass from £218 (mystsnet.com); and Swiss, which has returns from Heathrow to Zurich from £152 (swiss.com). Ski Solutions has seven nights’ half-board at Hotel Maya Caprice from £1,469pp, including flights and transfers (skisolutions.com)

What are your experiences of learning to ski later in life? Let us know in the comments below

Sign up for our Times Travel newsletter and follow us on Instagram and XWhat are your experiences of learning to ski later in life? Let us know in the comments below