Spain and four states in the US have reinstated mask rules and mandates amid a surge in Covid and flu cases over the winter. These only apply to medical settings, such as hospitals, and often only apply to medical staff and not patients or visitors. But the rules can vary significantly and some travellers may understandably be worried about what it might mean for an upcoming trip, and how they can best prepare. If you’re travelling soon to either Spain or the US, or even other parts of the world, here’s what you need to know.

Main photo: some passengers still choose to wear a mask on a flight (Alamy)

A pharmacy in Zafra, in Spain’s Extremadura region. Masks are mandatory in some Spanish pharmacies (Alamy)

Has travel advice changed in Spain?

Travel advice in Spain hasn’t changed. You don’t need to wear masks on public transport, for example, or on flights to the country — although some people may choose to. There is also no need to wear masks in other public settings. Masks are, however, mandatory in hospitals, health centres and even some pharmacies, so you may wish to be prepared.

The UK Foreign Office says: “Due to an increase in respiratory infections such as flu and Covid-19, you may be required to wear a face mask when using healthcare facilities such as doctors’ surgeries, hospitals or pharmacies. Specific rules on the use of face masks may vary by region. You should refer to the advice of local authorities in your destination and ensure you are aware of the specific measures in place on how best to protect yourself and others.”

Mass General Brigham is among health facilities in the US that have reintroduced mask rules (Getty Images)

Which US states have rules about face masks?

Mask rules have been reintroduced in certain medical settings, such as hospitals, in the US states of New York, California, Illinois and Massachusetts, as well as in Washington DC. However, the rules can vary significantly — even within the same state — and they’re not always mandated, so it’s best to check before you travel. In some cases, the rules have been imposed by the medical facilities or healthcare providers rather than imposed as a state-wide initiative.

In Massachusetts, for example, Mass General Brigham, the largest healthcare provider in the state, requires its frontline staff to wear masks while attending to patients, but not in the hallways. And while patients and visitors are encouraged to wear a mask too, they’re not required to.

In California, some counties are only requiring masks for the winter season to limit the spread of Covid as well as flu and other respiratory illnesses, while others have made it a year-round requirement for staff but not for patients or visitors.

Should I take masks on holiday with me?

It can be helpful to take some masks with you just in case but in the majority of cases you won’t need one. Many people are still choosing to wear masks in crowded settings to reduce their chances of getting Covid, flu and other airborne respiratory illnesses. Again, the choice is yours.

A statue takes no chances in the departures hall at Suvarnabhumi Airport, Bangkok (Getty Images)

Do you need to wear masks on flights?

Most airlines dropped their mask requirements in May 2022 and haven’t reinstated them. You can still wear masks on board if you want to, and some airlines still provide them. However, whether you have to wear masks on board a flight will depend on the rules at your destination, so it’s worth checking.

Do I have to wear a mask in the airport?

The requirement to wear a mask has been dropped in all airports in the UK, including London Heathrow and Gatwick. This is the case in most other airports around the world too, but you can always check the restrictions at your destination airport in advance to confirm.

What type of mask do I need to wear?

Some countries have strict policies around the types of masks that are acceptable, which will apply when passengers disembark from the aircraft. In most cases, a surgical-style mask is accepted, and some will accept a reusable cloth one as well. However, some countries may require a higher spec FFP2 face mask.

Will my insurance cover me if I change my mind about travelling?

There is no reason to cancel your holiday due to the uptick in cases of Covid and flu right now, unless you’re too sick to travel. If you’ve simply changed your mind, you’re unlikely to be covered by any travel insurance policy. If you can’t travel because you’re ill, check the small print on your policy — it’s likely you’ll get some money back, but it depends on the circumstances and your level of cover.

Take me there

Planning to book a flight? Here are the best options from Jet2 and British Airways.