Istanbul has been a commercial merry-go-round for millennia. But despite its historic and cultural heft, in the luxury stakes it has lagged behind London, Paris, Rome and New York. Until now.

Despite Turkey’s political vicissitudes and shifting global alliances, travellers today are in for a treat. The Michelin Guide, which launched here in 2022, has recently upped its star count to eight across seven restaurants. As well as the Park Hyatt, Raffles and Ritz-Carlton, the Bosphorus is now strung with hotels including the Four Seasons, Shangri-La, Ritz-Carlton, Mandarin Oriental and Six Senses, all with cool pools, sprawling suites and superb spas.

On the city’s buzzing streets there are cocktail bars worthy of Barcelona and Lower Manhattan, stores stocked with wares by homegrown designers, boutique hotels that could give Rome a run for its money and restored historic spas as well as contemporary art galleries.

Add a world-class personal guide with knowledge of under-the-radar attractions and Istanbul is the It city for 2024. Your long weekend starts here.

Where to stay

A spruce-up has subtly refreshed the Ciragan Palace Kempinski (kempinski.com), Istanbul’s original Bosphorus-front favourite. Rooms whisper haute Ottoman, with mother-of-pearl inlays, prints of sultans and fabrics in imperial maroon and blue. Private-balcony suites overlook the water and Asian shores, and there are 11 suites in the photogenic neoclassical-style palace. The pool scene is serene, Tugra restaurant is reliably Turkish and newcomer Akdeniz by Esra Muslu succeeds with seafood, grills and salads best eaten alfresco.

Advertisement

The Ciragan Palace Kempinski, on the banks of the Bosphorus

The view from the Royal Ottoman suite of the Ciragan Palace Kempinski

At the Peninsula Istanbul (peninsula.com), unveiled last spring, the spa is the star, a twinkling homage to hammams and holy buildings, with marble and dome detailing by Zeynep Fadillioglu, Turkey’s first female mosque architect. Hotel bedrooms are elegant essays in gull greys and scarlet lacquer cabinets, afternoon tea in the modernist lobby befits the Peninsula Hong Kong original, and the shorefront location, with its chic lap pool facing the spires and palace eaves of the Byzantine peninsula, is splendid.

Gallada restaurant at the Peninsula hotel

New to the design hotel scene is bijou Ecole St Pierre (estphotel.com) in a restored 19th-century French Catholic school in upbeat Galata. Accommodation was once classrooms and the creatives have had fun with the interiors, introducing a library-like reception and decorative coat hooks. In the former choral space, the restaurant-bar Il Cortile is appealingly mid-century modern, serving pizzas in the courtyard.

Where to eat

Turk Fatih Tutak restaurant in Bomonti

In industrial-groovy Bomonti, fashionably casual Turk Fatih Tutak (turkft.com) has two Michelin stars — a Turkish first. Top wines meet a rootsy tasting menu from a boisterous open kitchen. On a sidestreet in boho Cukurcuma is inviting No19 Dining (Faik Pasa Caddesi 6), where Aylin the cook serves delicious veggie meze and graceful ceramics are for sale. Aheste (ahesterestaurant.com) is a warmly lit shoebox of red brick walls, gently Greenwich Villagey and at home in the Beyoglu district: the perfect place for negronis prior to mod-Med fish dishes. Istanbul is made for Japanese dining with its fish bounty. Head to Sankai by Nagaya (sankai.com.tr), a 24-seater hidden in a discreet suite by the water at Bebek Hotel by The Stay. Chef Hiroko Shibata’s quiveringly fresh sushi and set menus have already earned her recognition — and a new Michelin star. Neolokal (neolokal.com) is the logical choice after perusing the art at cultural hub Salt Galata near Karakoy: distant domes loom through giant windows and the Anatolian-luxe dishes include marinated sea bass and raki-laced beans.

What to see

Serefiye Sarnici (serefiyesarnici.istanbul), a subterranean cistern of ancient Constantinople, is essential viewing — go after hours and with a private tour. Tall-columned, with immaculately preserved Corinthian capitals, it’s a remarkable relic from the era of 5th-century Emperor Theodosius II.

Serefiye Sarnici

Sponsored

Newly renovated Zeyrek Cinili hammam (zeyrekcinilihamam.com) is a rare “double” example with areas for both men and women (most hammams observe alternate days), an early work by Sinan (c 1490-1588), architect of Turkey’s great mosques and deemed Michelangelo’s eastern equal. Restoration meant retrieving original tiles from the Louvre and the V&A; the pale marble baths will be open for business from May.

The men’s hot room at Zeyrek Cinili hammam

Until then, elegant Cukurcuma hammam (cukurcumahamami.com) has treatments by highly skilled attendants. Undervisited Mihrimah Sultan Mosque on Fevzi Pasa Caddesi, billowing on the skyline as it has been since the 1560s when it was unveiled for the daughter of Suleiman the Magnificent, merits the detour to working-class Edirnekapi.

Mesher gallery

Mesher (mesher.org), hiding in plain sight on busy Istiklal Caddesi, typifies the city’s knack for well-curated galleries. Also on this street is Casa Botter (@casabotter), Istanbul’s first art nouveau apartment in a building dating from 1900 with a whimsical Viennese-style façade.

A plate from Mesher

Where to drink

On a steep street in downtown Beyoglu, Flekk (flekkcocktailbar.com) draws late martini drinkers like a beacon on a dark night to its gorgeous little grotto of cocktail spirits. Styled like someone’s apartment, SalonCuma (cuma.cc) in alt-funky Cukurcuma is a cool curiosity open for end-of-week-into-weekend mojito swillers. Rooms brim with plants, books and faux Breuer chairs. In the shadow of Galata Tower, newcomer Iguru (i-gurugalata.com) nods to Bodrum with trippy soul beats, Scandi greige seating and flawless sidecars among the cocktails. Across town in the chi-chi Nisantasi quarter is much loved tiny wine bar Foxy (followthefoxy.com), which promotes Turkey’s best small producers from the Black Sea to southeastern Anatolia. Mikla (miklarestaurant.com) is a modern classic, 18 floors up in the Marmara Pera hotel. Come for sundowners and a view of the dusky skyline spiked with the minarets of Sultan Ahmet Mosque.

The expert guide

Advertisement

Sinan Sokmen of Istanbul Tour Studio (istanbultourstudio.com) has boundless knowledge of his city, from ancient sights to the latest places to eat and drink. For DIY explorers, his chunky insider guide Monday to Sunday Istanbul (mondaytosundaybook.com) is indispensable, full of local tips and curated itineraries.

Who to go with

Original Travel offers four nights at the Ciragan Palace Kempinski from £4,250pp B&B, including return flights, private transfers, cistern tour and hammam experience; originaltravel.co.uk.