“The more the better. They can have as many as they want and we’ll go and get them.” One can admire the positivity and playfulness of Ben Duckett and this England team — such were his comments on the third evening — while also questioning their self-delusion. You wouldn’t want them in charge of the family exchequer, even so: spend as much as you want my spendthrift wife/son/daughter (delete as applicable) and we’ll earn enough to pay off the debt!

Careful husbandry of resources is not the Bazball way. They have been profligate in the extreme in this match, wasting a golden opportunity to build on Duckett’s brilliant second-day hundred and to achieve parity or more on first innings, and they were forced to take some bitter medicine as a consequence on a stifling and totally demoralising fourth day in Rajkot. They went down in flames by the massive margin of 434 runs.

• Read Mike Atherton’s day four report here

India win by 434 runs

Mark Wood adds 33 from 15 balls but becomes the final English victim and Ravindra Jadeja’s fifth wicket of the innings. India have won this third Test in Rajkot by an enormous 434 runs with the touring side entirely dominated on days three and four.

England’s hopes of forcing their way back into the Test with a burst of early wickets came to nothing when play resumed on the fourth morning today. They had to wait an hour for a breakthrough — courtesy of a brilliant run out by Ben Stokes — and managed only one other wicket in the first session.

Advertisement

Carnage then ensued after lunch as the superstar Yashasvi Jaiswal and debutant Sarfaraz Khan battered England’s bowlers to the tune of 116 in 16 overs in the lead-up to a declaration that left England a nominal 557 runs to win. Jaiswal made 214* — his second double hundred after making 209 in Visakhapatnam — in only his seventh Test match. The 22-year-old struck 12 sixes in his innings, equalling Wasim Akram’s world record from 1996. Having struck 22 maximums over the first three Tests, Jaiswal also broke the record for the most sixes in any Test series… and there are still two matches to play in this one.

Ben Duckett had earlier said: “The more [runs] the better. They can have as many as they want and we’ll go and get them,” but England’s fourth innings turned from calamitous to unmitigated disaster with almost every over that passed. Duckett himself was run out after a chaotic mix-up with Zak Crawley, Jasprit Bumrah then removed the Kent opener, before Ravindra Jadeja — who took five for 41 — and Kuldeep Yadav tore through the middle and lower order.

There was a brief period of defiance from Joe Root and Ben Stokes, and some late fireworks from Wood, but India were too dominant, England’s batsmen too weak, and the touring side were skittled for 122. The result means that India will take a 2-1 lead into the fourth Test at Ranchi, which begins on Friday.

England nine down

It’s been a defiant stand but it was only a matter of time until England slipped to eight down and Jadeja now has his fourth wicket. Foakes is the man to depart having feathered an edge through to Jurel after cutting too close to his body.

Sponsored

Mark Wood arrives at the crease with India two away and strikes his first two balls for four, but Hartley then chops Ashwin on to his own stumps at the other end.

Foakes and Hartley counter

Little pride can be salvaged from this calamitous fourth innings but at least Ben Foakes and Tom Hartley are going down swinging. England’s wicketkeeper crunches Kuldeep off the back foot for four then plays a sweetly timed drive down the ground to move to 12. Hartley then swats Ashwin, back on the field after leaving the Test due to a family medical emergency, for six then four. England are still 74 for seven though.

England seven down

Rehan Ahmed tries to be aggressive to Kuldeep but holes out to Siraj in the deep.

Stokes falls

And now Stokes falls, leg-before to Kuldeep Yadav after another poorly executed sweep. The England captain wastes a review to add insult to injury. In a catastrophic collapse, England are 50 for six.

Root out for seven

Advertisement

Root has been completely out of sorts in this series and falls for yet another low score, trapped leg-before by Jadeja after getting a sweep all wrong. Root had looked solid here, despite reaching only seven from 39 balls, but in six innings in this series he has scored 77 runs at an average of 12.83.

You’d have to say that the main issue for England in this series has been a lack of first-innings runs. They have made totals of 253, 246 and 319, causing deficits of 190, 143 and 126.

Bairstow leg-before

England are four down as Bairstow falls for yet another low score. The Yorkshireman was plumb leg-before in the first innings for a duck and the same thing happens here as he gets a sweep to Jadeja all wrong and departs for four. England are in total disarray as Ben Stokes arrives at the crease and survives a leg-before review on his second ball.

Pope falls

Pope has looked uncomfortable to spin — as he often does at the start of his innings — and he falls to Jadeja, edging to slip after trying to cut a delivery that was far too close to him. England are three down and this could all be over by the end of today.

Ashwin set to return

Simon Wilde, Rajkot: While the players are taking tea, Ravichandran Ashwin is out in the middle in his cricket whites, practising his bowling. It looks certain that he will be taking the field straight after tea. He will be annoyed that one left-hander, Ben Duckett, is already out but he may not have to wait long for a look at Ben Stokes.

Alastair Cook, former England captain and Sunday Times columnist: The game has gone for England and I can’t see any way out of it from here, but how they play in this next two-and-a-half hours will have a big impact in the fourth Test match. If England lose this Test they are still in the series and we’ve seen this side have mad days. They could easily get 500 in a day batting first on a flat wicket in the next two Tests, but if they roll over in this next session, that will have a big impact on the next game in what is a tough long tour.

• Alastair Cook: Wrong time for Root’s ramp – Stokes needs to have a quiet word

Crawley falls on stroke of tea

Advertisement

Bad to worse for England as Crawley is given out leg-before to Bumrah with the final ball of the session. Kumar Dharmasena takes an age to give it, but the finger eventually goes up and a review fails to save the Kent opener with the ball just clipping the top of leg stump. England are 18 for two at tea and need a further 539.

Duckett run out

Calamitous running. Duckett, who made 153 in the first innings, has been watchful at the start of this second innings but is run out after a chaotic mix-up with Crawley. The Nottinghamshire opener pushes towards mid-on, but Mohammed Siraj sweeps in from mid-wicket, swoops the ball up and throws to ‘keeper Dhruv Jurel. It’s brilliant work from Jurel, who in one motion dives, collects the ball on the half-volleys, and takes the stumps with Duckett well short. There was never a run there. Disaster start for England.

Analysis: Carnage as records tumble

Simon Wilde, Rajkot: We have had an hour and a bit of absolute carnage as the superstar Yashasvi Jaiswal and debutant Sarfaraz Khan battered England’s bowlers to the tune of 116 in 16 overs in the lead-up to a declaration that leaves England 40 minutes to bat before tea.

It is worth pointing out that the heat today is stifling and England will be feeling their three hours in the dirt, but they must now get their heads around batting 41 overs to stumps.

Records tumbled. Jaiswal — who resumed his innings an hour into the day after retiring with cramp last night on 104 — sped to his second double-century of the series off just 231 balls. Only Virender Sehwag has scored a faster double-hundred for India (five times) and only Nathan Astle and Jason Holder have scored faster ones against England.

Sarfaraz, right, who made 68*, celebrates Jaiswal, left, reaching his second double century in as many Tests AP

He could have got there faster but slowed up after contemptuously taking three sixes off three balls from a James Anderson over that cost 21 to move to 186. Anderson’s three-over spell went for 37. Jaiswal did not hit another boundary from the next 22 balls in getting to 200, but then celebrated the landmark by smiting Joe Root over extra cover and wide long-on for his 11th and 12th sixes of the innings to equal the Test record set by Pakistan’s Wasim Akram in 1996.

Sarfaraz, who was dropped by Root off his own bowling on 37, plundered 18 off the final over of the innings from Rehan Ahmed before Rohit Sharma called his batsmen in, with Jaiswal on 214* and Sarfaraz on 68* and India 430 for four. England need a nominal 557 to win in a minimum of 131 overs. They will say they are going for them.

England need 557 to win

Advertisement

Six, four, six. This may be Sarfaraz Khan’s debut but he also looks a serious player as he takes 17 from Ahmed’s final over to move to 68 not out before Rohit Sharma signals the declaration. England require 557 runs to win after a chastening two days in Rajkot.

Jaiswal hits second double hundred

It is a story that’s been recounted numerous times, but as Jaiswal reaches the second double hundred of his fledgling Test career, it becomes all the more extraordinary. As a small child, Jaiswal lived for years in a tent on an Indian sports ground, scraping a living by selling street food while he practised cricket, but in only seven Tests he is averaging more than 70 and has three centuries and two fifties.

This double hundred — his second after making 209 in Visakhapatnam — comes in 231 balls and he follows reaching the landmark by striking Root for two enormous sixes. He has now struck a world record 12 maximums in the innings. With 22 struck in total in the first three Tests, the 22-year-old has also broken the record for the most sixes in any Test series… and there are still two matches to play.

As the debutant Sarfaraz brings up his second Test fifty having scored 61 in the first innings, this fifth-wicket partnership ticks to 154 at drinks. India, who are scoring at more than six an over in this session, lead by 538.

Jaiswal dispatches Anderson

England are being taken all around the wicket by Jaiswal in the opening overs of this afternoon session. After clipping Anderson for a single to bring up his 150, the 22-year-old audaciously ramps a delivery from full outside off to the fine leg boundary. Ahmed is then punished for overpitching before Jaiswal hits Anderson for three back-to-back sixes. That over went for 21 and the lead is now 476 — how much longer will India stay out there?

Morning recap

Simon Wilde, Rajkot: England’s hopes of forcing their way back into the third Test with a burst of early wickets came to nothing when play resumed on the fourth morning today. They had to wait an hour for a breakthrough — courtesy of a brilliant run out by Ben Stokes — and managed only one other wicket in the session.

By lunch, India — with Yashasvi Jaiswal unbeaten on 149, having resumed his innings after suffering back cramp on Saturday, and Sarfaraz Khan on 22 — had lifted their score from 196 for two to 314 for four, giving them a lead of 440, which is already more than any Test team has successfully chased in history. Jaiswal and Sarfaraz raised the tempo with an aggressive partnership of 56 off 62 balls.

Jaiswal had to retire hurt with a back problem on day three but has piled on the runs for India since returning today AP

Not that England seemed to care how much they chase, given that Ben Duckett has said: “The more the better. They can have as many as they want and we’ll go and get them.”

To add to England’s problems, the Indian board released a statement during the morning to say that Ravichandran Ashwin, India’s best spinner, was on his way back to Rajkot to rejoin the squad and take his place in the team. Ashwin flew to Chennai on Friday evening because of a family medical emergency and missed Saturday’s play.

The statement read: “Both R Ashwin and the team management are pleased to confirm that he will be back in action on Day 4 and will continue to contribute towards the team’s cause in the ongoing Test match.” It is understood that Ashwin could bat — if required — and bowl at any stage in the fourth innings.

With the pitch flat and slow, England bowled only six overs of pace, but their spinners failed to keep the scoring in check on a fast outfield, being hit for eight fours and four sixes, as Jaiswal took his tally of sixes to 20 in seven Tests.

England had problems with their reviews against nightwatchman Kuldeep Yadav, wasting one when he got an inside edge and then not reviewing when he was leg-before to Hartley. Kuldeep only added one run before he was out to Rehan Ahmed, Joe Root taking the slip catch but hurting his hand in the process. Root bowled four more overs but appeared troubled and was spanked for sixes by Jaiswal and Sarfaraz.

Shubman Gill was run out for 91 when Kuldeep drove to mid-on where Stokes fired in a return on the bounce which Hartley did well to gather; Gill, having advanced down the pitch, turned and put in a full-length dive but failed to make his ground by inches.