The Blue Lagoon has reopened following a period of closure due to the volcano eruption at the start of February, although the UK Foreign Office says that the likelihood of another eruption is “high”.

On February 8, a volcano erupted in Iceland’s Reykjanes peninsula for the third time since December 2023. The eruption, northeast of Mount Sylingarfell, shot lava fountains up to 80m into the air and was close to the town of Grindavik, which was evacuated in January. The UK Foreign Office updated its travel advice following the latest eruption to warn tourists to stay away from Grindavik, but added that the rest of the country is not affected. If you’re planning a trip to Iceland soon, here’s what you need to know.

Main photo: people watch smoke billow from the eruption in January 2024 near Grindavik (Getty Images)

Map: Times Design

What’s the current situation in Grindavik?

The UK Foreign Office warns tourists to stay away from Grindavik, the nearest town to the volcano. The town was evacuated in January following the last eruption, and its barrier wall, intended to divert lava flow away from it, was breached in places. The main road into the town was also cut off.

Lava from the latest eruption near Grindavik on February 8 (Getty Images)

Is it safe to travel to Iceland right now?

It’s not safe to visit either the site of the volcano or the town of Grindavik, but the rest of the country, including the capital, Reykjavik, remains safe to visit.

Lava flows near Grindavik in January (Getty Images)

What is the Foreign Office travel advice?

The Foreign Office updated its advice on February 12. It says: “Iceland is volcanic and seismically active. Recently there have been a series of volcanic eruptions on the Reykjanes peninsula in southwest Iceland. These have affected the town of Grindavik and area to the north of it and the Blue Lagoon. All roads to Grindavik and the surrounding area are closed and you should stay away from this area. Keflavik International Airport and the road to it are unaffected and operating normally. The capital city, Reykjavik, and the rest of Iceland are not impacted by the eruptions. The likelihood of further eruptions in this location remains high. You should monitor local media for updates and follow the authorities’ advice on travel to the area.”

Smoke from an eruption in January rises on the outskirts of Grindavik (Getty Images)

Where is the volcano in Iceland?

The volcano is by Hagafell on the Reykjanes peninsula in southwestern Iceland, around two miles from Grindavik. The latter is around 35 miles southwest of the capital, Reykjavik, and 16 miles from the international airport. It’s close to the Blue Lagoon, one of Iceland’s most popular tourist attractions.

Bathers at the Blue Lagoon (Alamy)

Is the Blue Lagoon closed?

The Blue Lagoon and its restaurants, cafe and spa reopened on February 16, although it said that its opening hours had been temporarily adjusted (from 8am to 9pm). Visitors with Blue Lagoon bookings have to use an alternative route to the site, as the main access road is closed.

Are flights to Iceland cancelled?

All flights to and from Iceland are currently operating as usual.

The Eyjafjallajokull eruption in 2010 resulted in the largest air traffic shutdown since the Second World War, with millions of passengers stranded across the world. This is because volcanic ash, if ingested in sufficient quantities, can lead to engine failure and persistent northerly winds were carrying large plumes of ash across Europe.

Following the Eyjafjallajokull eruption, the European Union Aviation Safety Agency says it is now better prepared for future major volcanic ash events and is monitoring the current situation. It states: “In the event of an eruption and development of an ash cloud, the agency will work with other aviation actors to assess the impact for aviation and make recommendations accordingly.”

Has Reykjavik been affected by the volcano?

The city has not been affected by the volcano eruption and, according to the Foreign Office’s advice, remains safe to visit.

Additional reporting by Qin Xie and Lizzie Frainier