I have a friend in New York who as a tech developer seems to straddle many communities. She lives in Brooklyn and so is at the centre of a Venn diagram of style that takes in cool and groovy, corporate, and young family. And she has a theory about the beanie — the ubiquitous male headgear — that I think is worth repeating here. Roll it up and perch it on the top of your head and you are saying hipster. Pull it down over your ears and it’s a gorpcore hiking vibe. Sit it neatly on your head with perhaps one turn-up and you’re a little more conservative, maybe a young professional, like a finance bro. And wear it straight but not too low, with some floppiness at the top, and you’re rocking the dad look.

My friend Fiona swears by this analysis and I’ve been applying it over here. Allowing for cultural differences, I have to say that she’s onto something. And then there are the colours …

Black is of course a safe bet and is widely available, though it can make you look a little SAS. In fact, the Action Man Sabotage Set, which ran from 1969, came with TNT sticks and detonator, a black inflatable dinghy and little black woollen hat. This last would later morph into a black plastic version that looked a bit more hipster, especially if you paired it with the Adventurer figure of 1973, which had realistic hair and beard (brown or blond), a roll-neck, jeans and boots. Though to my knowledge there was no scale model espresso machine to accompany this.

This article contains affiliate links that can earn us revenue

Zegna x The Elder Statesman brushed cashmere beanie, £385

But go for a coloured beanie and you punctuate your outfit, becoming something like a walking inverted exclamation mark. Zegna has a collaboration with California’s cool The Elder Statesman label that includes a brushed cashmere beanie in lilac, yellow or green. Oliver Spencer has a heavy-gauge knitted wool dock hat in red, cobalt blue, navy, sea green or black; Moncler has many models in wool, cashmere blend or cotton in multiple colours, with a variety of motifs and stripes and different uses of the brand logo; and Brunello Cucinelli offers an ecru double knit cashmere version with a contrasting stripe.

Advertisement

Moncler tricolour wool beanie, £295

More subtle is Tom Ford’s wool and cashmere-blend ribbed style with leather trim, in beige, army green or black; Corneliani’s Sublime cashmere beanie in black, grey or blue, and extra-fine merino wool model in white, black or blue; Turnbull & Asser’s navy ribbed cashmere version and charcoal grey cable knit design; and Emporio Armani’s wool mélange rib knit example in beige, navy or light grey. Meanwhile, at Balmain beanies display monograms … and so it goes on.

Corneliani Sublime cashmere beanie, £157

The name “beanie” possibly refers to “bean”, slang for head, and the origins of the style seem to lie in workwear. As such until recent times it would not have been on the radar of traditional hatters such as Lock & Co of St James’s, apparently the oldest hat shop in the world, dating back to 1676. This is the place that helped create the bowler — the prototype was made by Thomas Bowler, the firm’s chief hat maker — and made the Cambridge, a style worn by Winston Churchill that was the inspiration for Oddjob’s lethal square-topped bowler in the Bond screen classic Goldfinger. Other worthies who got their headgear here include Oscar Wilde, Charlie Chaplin and Admiral Lord Nelson. But while Lock & Co still does a brisk trade in top hats for events such as Ascot and weddings, brimmed trilbies and fedoras for the more sartorially inclined, and panamas for the summer, the real action over recent years has been in less formal headgear.

Lock & Co Rannoch cashmere beanie, £145

“We see trends, of course,” says Ysabel De Ornelas, head buyer (pun intended) of Lock & Co. “For a while it was the baker-boy because of Peaky Blinders and people like David Beckham. Then Succession definitely helped drive interest in luxury baseball caps. We have them in wool, cord and cashmere. But the beanie has been this winter’s winner. It’s portable, keeps you warm, and pretty much goes with any outfit.” Lock & Co does two weights of ribbed cashmere beanie in a range of colours. The Rannoch is a heavier weight, while the Ski model is lighter. Both will do the job. But remember to check yourself in the mirror before you leave the house to get the look just right.