America remains the UK’s favourite long-haul holiday destination, but it’s not cheap. That’s not just because we’re only getting about $1.25 to the pound or because the cost of living in the US is higher, it’s because America is a world champion at extracting cash from pockets. This skill is exemplified by the national imposition of a minimum 20 per cent surcharge on millions of daily transactions that’s neither legal nor ethical, but we pay it because we’re too afraid to argue the toss (read our guide to tipping). And it’s not just the Americans — my research has found that the sky-high margins applied to holiday costs by British tour operators are increasingly tempting travellers to book US trips themselves. Here’s how to save a packet on your next American adventure.

1. Find the lowest cost way to get into town from the airport

It’s easy to spot the Brits at any US airport. They’re the ones queueing at the rank for a taxi into town — £55 from JFK to Manhattan, £50 from LAX to Hollywood or £30 from O’Hare to downtown Chicago, plus tips. It’s often quicker and always much cheaper to take public transport from JFK — take the AirTrain to Jamaica station (£7) then either the E train (45 minutes; £2) or the Long Island Rail Road (19 minutes; £9). In Los Angeles, the FlyAway bus costs £7.70 and drops you at Union station, from where you can take the Metro to Hollywood. In Chicago, the L train into the city is £4 and off-peak the Washington DC metro costs £1.60 into the centre.

The Miami Metromover ALAMY

2. Use public transport

Now that you have found public transport, stick with it. In New York, the subway is the cheapest way to get around the five boroughs; an Uber from Wall Street to Central Park is £40. It’s £2 on the C Line and you can tap in with your contactless credit or debit card.

In Los Angeles, the Metro is the smart alternative to the traffic jams choking the freeways, with eight lines radiating from Union station that serve all neighbourhoods. Buy a Tap card from any station (£2), load it with credit and tap in and out. Journeys cost just over £1.

In Miami, Metrorail, Metrobus and Metromover offer clean, fast alternatives to taxis, with fares at £2 for the first two and free rides on the third.

Advertisement

While no mass-transit system can ever be considered 100 per cent safe, consider this: in 2022-23 the NYPD recorded 4,658 crimes — mostly harassment and theft — on the city’s bus and subway network; the figure for the same period in London was 16,935. Put another way, New York’s subway crime rate was 2.2 per million riders in 2022; in London it was 18.6 per million.

There are fewer recorded crimes on public transport in New York than London GETTY IMAGES

3. Find free entry to museums

Arts and culture are mostly privately funded in the US, so museums are pricey, with entry to the biggest ranging from £20 to £25, but there are opportunities to walk in free.

In New York, the Whitney Museum of American Art is free every Friday evening from 5pm to 10pm and on the second Sunday of every month (whitney.org). And you can pay what you like at the Guggenheim from 5.45pm on Saturdays (guggenheim.org).

In Los Angeles, the County Museum of Art is free every second Tuesday (lacma.org); likewise the superb Wild West-themed Autry Museum in Griffith Park (theautry.org).

Sponsored

In Miami, the Museum of Contemporary Art North Miami is free from 7pm on the last Friday of every month (mocanomi.org), the fab Gold Coast Railroad Museum is free all day on the first Saturday of every month (goldcoastrailroadmuseum.org) and the Bass museum of contemporary art is free on the last Sunday of every month (thebass.org).

The Guggenheim museum ALAMY

4. Take advantage of cut-price meals and tickets

In New York, Restaurant Week is held once in winter (it was January 16 to February 4 this year) and again in late July, with two-course lunches and three-course dinners at more than 600 restaurants priced at £25, £35 and £50. Broadway Week, running concurrently with the winter Restaurant Week, offers two-for-one tickets to 23 of the city’s most popular shows, including The Book of Mormon, Hamilton and Stephen Sondheim’s Sweeney Todd. For more see nyctourism.com.

5. Save money by eating at food trucks

Most American hotels operate on a room-only basis, with breakfast charged at £15 to £30; lunch and dinner in mid-range restaurants are from £20 and £40, respectively, so that’s a minimum of £75 a day on food. In New York you can fill up for a fiver at street-food stalls offering everything from cream cheese bagels to Lebanese labneh, while in LA you should eat like an Angeleno — go posh at the Best Damn Breakfast Burrito in Beverly Hills (£11; bestdamnbreakfastburrito.com) or go local with a pork, egg and avocado burrito with pico de gallo from a Mexican food truck (about £6). And go back for dinner — the tacos are always cheap and delicious, especially with a cold Modelo beer.

The cost of a magical Easter holiday week at Disney World in Florida (with direct Orlando flights, accommodation in the mid-range Disney resort hotel Port Orleans and seven-day park tickets) comes in at a not very magical £9,000 — and that’s before the spending starts. Eating and drinking at the resort will cost about £150 per family per day, dinner with a character is £270, kids’ T-shirts are £25 and Mickey ears £25, so before you know it that’s more than ten grand for the week. Here’s how to do it cheaper.

6. Avoid peak season and direct flights

Advertisement

High demand makes Easter and Christmas the most expensive times of the year for Brits to visit Orlando. Putting your trip off until May half-term instantly brings that holiday cost down to £7,474. Dropping the direct flights and flying via Houston or Toronto reduces it to £4,072, but if you must have direct flights, don’t book with Disney. The same room at Port Orleans with the park tickets and direct flights at May half-term costs £5,798 when booked through virginholidays.co.uk; or £5,748 with Tui, flying into Melbourne Orlando airport, an hour’s drive southeast of the city. And if you’re swerving the tour operators to book direct you’ll save up to £250pp by flying to Fort Lauderdale or Tampa that week.

7. Book a villa

May half-term week in a standard four-bedroom villa with pool in either Kissimmee, Haines City, Clermont or Davenport — all about 30 minutes’ drive from the parks — costs £1,049pp, including direct flights (tui.co.uk). Add a car at £161 a week and parking at £16 a day and the total is £4,469 for a family of four.

8. Avoid the Disney Dining Plan

The so-called DDP offers daily lunch, dinner and a snack, and costs a staggering £1,441 for a family of four for a week. It’s sold as a convenience that also keeps you conveniently on resort and close to the Disney shops for the duration, but don’t fall for the hype. You can get an 8oz sirloin steak with a half-slab of ribs at Manny’s Original Chophouse in Haines City for £16 (mannyschophouse.com), or have pizza, salad and dessert for four delivered from local restaurants to your villa or hotel for about £70. If you are staying at a resort hotel have any deliveries left with the bell desk to avoid the £5 fee for bringing it to your room.

• How to save money (and time) at Disney World

9. Skip the upcharges

Genie Plus, Lightning Lane and Special Event tickets can add hundreds of pounds to the bottom line, but such is the magic of the four theme parks and two waterparks that the extra spend might feel like money wasted.

The US Route 163 runs through Monument Valley GETTY IMAGES

10. Shop around for car hire

Half an hour of research can save you hundreds of pounds on car hire. I looked at rental costs for a 16-day coast-to-coast road trip, collecting from JFK and returning to LAX. I compared prices from the main brokers and rental companies for small and intermediate cars and found that not only were intermediate cars often cheaper, but the price differences were as high as £497. The most expensive was Alamo, quoting £1,421 for a Chevrolet Spark and £1,528 for a Nissan Versa; the cheapest was Zest, at £1,050 and £1,031, respectively (zestcarrental.com).

11. Stay in motels

The motel was invented to accommodate road-trippers and, while those that remain may be too basic for lovers of luxury, they not only offer a more authentic and cinematic experience than city hotels, but — when booked in advance — are surprisingly cheap.

Advertisement

The main chains are America’s Best Value Inn, Econo Lodge, Motel 6, Super 8 and Travelodge, and I compared their total costs for one night each in St Louis, Springfield, Oklahoma City, Amarillo, Albuquerque and Las Vegas. The best value was Super 8 at a total of £286, just ahead of Motel 6 at £288; Travelodge was the most expensive at £349.

12. Avoid valet parking

If you venture into a city for the night, beware of booking hotels that offer mandatory valet parking. This can put up to £50 extra on your bill, plus the tip, so check before reserving your room, and if there’s no alternative parking available find another hotel. Bear in mind that in most cities you can park on the street free of charge all day on Sundays and after 6pm on other days.

Horseshoe Bend in Arizona GETTY IMAGES

13. Buy the America the Beautiful pass

The America the Beautiful pass costs £63 and gives unlimited access for one year to more than 2,000 sites managed by the Forest Service, the National Park Service, Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Land Management, Bureau of Reclamation, and US Army Corp of Engineers. By the time you’ve visited three national parks — Yosemite and Kings Canyon are £28 each; Joshua Tree is £24 — you’ll be quids in. Get your pass from any National Park or National Recreation Area office.

14. Camp for just £24 a night

Hotel options in Yosemite, for example, cost between £66 and £410 a night. The accommodation is comfortable, clean and utterly soulless, because all the fun is happening on the campsites. There are 13 in this park alone, and popular sites like Wawona and Hodgdon Meadow must be reserved five months in advance. Pitches accommodate up to six and cost £28 a night. Different prices are in effect for other parks: Bryce Canyon, for example, charges £24 a night (nps.gov).

This article contains affiliate links that can earn us revenue

The motel was invented to accommodate road-trippers GETTY IMAGES

15. Choose Florida over the Hamptons

Using the Vrbo booking platform I searched for seaside holiday homes with pools accommodating a family of four for a fortnight in August in locations across the US. In the Hamptons, the cheapest was £6,972. The Jersey Shore was £6,237. Hilton Head in South Carolina was £3,299. Gulf Shores, Alabama, was £2,783. Fort Myers Beach in Florida, though, was just £1,645, and there’s a reason why the Sunshine State is so cheap. Visitor numbers rocketed during the pandemic, due to Florida’s laissez-faire attitude to Covid. High demand pushed rental rates up, and small investors thought they could cash in on the boom by buying holiday lets. But the boom went bust when the world reopened, interest rates rose, one in 527 homes faces repossession and oversaturation has forced down rents across the state. Salty Shell Villa is a canal-front property sleeping six in Port Charlotte, north of Fort Myers. It has two bathrooms and a pool and is half an hour from Manasota Key beach (vrbo.com).

• 13 of the best affordable hotels in New York

• 18 tips for doing New York on a budget

16. Make sure resort fees are included

Advertisement

The resort fee is the mandatory sum charged on a per-room, per-night basis that you’ll probably know nothing about until you see it on your bill — and with contactless checkouts now ubiquitous — it could be too late before you realise that the hotel has fleeced you of up to £70 a night for amenities you probably thought were included in the room rate. These might include gym access, tennis courts, the pool and wi-fi, whether you use any of the above or not. It’s a murky marketing trick that serves partly to allow hotels to advertise lower base rates, and partly to cut down on the commission paid to online travel agents like Booking.com. California has already passed a law that outlaws “offering a price for a good or service that does not include all mandatory fees” from July 1, 2024, and the Federal Trade Commission is working on a national ban on hidden charges, but in the meantime hotels will steal billions from guests — and some tour operators will earn a bit from it too. A one-week trip departing April 20 to the Intercontinental in Midtown New York costs £1,705pp with both BA and Virgin Holidays. BA includes the £35 daily resort fee in the cost. Virgin doesn’t, adding £245 to your bill. Watch the agents too: Booking.com mentions a resort fee deep in the small print for the Sahara in Las Vegas, for example, but doesn’t say that it’s £34 a day. If you’re caught out at check out, it’s worth asking to talk to management. Time it right — when reception is busy — and they may waive the fee.

17. Book your own trip

High-speed rail is coming to America, with projects in California, Nevada, Texas, Washington and on Amtrak’s Acela network underway, but in the medium term, tours by train in the US involve a mixture of heritage railways and Amtrak, covering itineraries such as the Deep South, New England and California. Most of us book these as escorted trips with specialist operators but once again my research shows that you can save a packet by booking your own trip. I looked at a 14-day railway tour of the Deep South, taking in Atlanta, Nashville, Memphis, New Orleans and Houston, and costing £3,295pp. Using Google Flights to find open-jaw returns and Amtrak’s £398 USA Rail Pass (amtrak.com), I replicated the exact itinerary, including the same hotels and excursions, for £2,660pp. You won’t have a tour leader, but you’ll have saved £1,270 per couple.

What’s your top tip for saving money in the States? Let us know in the comments below

Sign up for our Times Travel newsletter and follow us on Instagram and X