The bosses of water firms that commit criminal acts of water pollution will be banned from receiving bonuses as part of efforts to clean up the nation’s waterways.

In a victory for the Times Clean It Up campaign, which marks its one-year anniversary this week, the government will block water chiefs from taking payouts if companies are failing.

Campaigners as well as Labour and the Liberal Democrats have previously called for the measure amid public anger at executives enjoying £26 million in bonuses since 2019 despite harm to rivers.

Contaminating a bathing site is one of the two most serious categories of pollution

The Times reported last month that Steve Barclay, the environment secretary, was on the verge of blocking bonuses for leaders of companies that regularly breach laws protecting rivers and seas. Now he is adopting the policy, starting with bonuses in the 2024-25 financial year.

Several water bosses voluntarily waived their bonuses last year amid anger over sewage spills, including the heads of Southern Water and Thames Water.

Advertisement

However, five bosses did take their bonuses. They included Anglian Water’s Peter Simpson, who received a £302,033 bonus in 2022-23 even though his company’s environmental performance was rated two stars out of four.

In July 2021 Southern Water was fined £90 million after being prosecuted for deliberately pumping raw sewage into the sea, yet its chief executive, Ian McAulay, still took a bonus of more than £500,000.

Sewage is discharged into a brook in South Earlswood, Surrey, near a treatment works run by Thames Water GETTY

Ofwat, the industry regulator, will consult on what should trigger a bonus ban. This could include being successfully prosecuted for the two most serious categories of pollution, such as significantly contaminating a bathing site. The measure would apply to chief executives and all executive board members.

“No one should profit from illegal behaviour and it’s time that water company bosses took responsibility for that,” Barclay said.

Sponsored

The shift comes as The Times reveals that water companies have poured vast amounts of raw sewage into dozens of areas of outstanding natural beauty.

Analysis by the website Top of the Poops shows that 7 per cent of the total number of hours of sewage spills in England and Wales — or more than 170,000 hours — took place in protected green spaces during 2022.

The Times’s award-winning Clean It Up campaign marks its one-year anniversary this week.

It was launched last year to push the government and polluters to clean up rivers, lakes and beaches.

Advertisement

However, progress on new bathing waters has been slow; real-time sewage maps have failed to materialise; and farmers have been given little extra incentive to reduce pollution.

The campaign has notched a series of successes, from pledges to end self-monitoring by water firms, unlimited fines for polluters and the water sector promising £96 billion of investment.

There are 46 areas of outstanding natural beauty (AONBs) in the UK, considered “fine landscapes” that are so distinctive and beautiful that it is “in the nation’s interest to safeguard them”.

However, analysis for The Times revealed that there were 22,938 individual releases of raw sewage into the protected areas across England and Wales in 2022, lasting 170,286 hours.

If those hours were spread evenly across the 46 AONBs, it would equate to five months of continuous raw sewage release per area in a single year.

Saving Windermere: A campaigner’s bid to end sewage pollution in England’s largest lake

Richard Benwell, chief executive of Wildlife and Countryside Link, an alliance of green groups including the RSPB and National Trust, said the discharges were utterly unacceptable. “It is an offence to the millions of people who love those landscapes and an assault on wildlife,” he said.

The worst-hit area of outstanding natural beauty was the High Weald, in Sussex, Surrey and Kent, which suffered 26,802 hours of releases from storm overflows in a year. Wastewater management in the area, home to almost 4,000 species of plants and animals, is handled by Southern Water.

Advertisement

“We need thriving ecosystems. If we can’t get that in an AONB, where can we? It’s embarrassing that in the 21st century we can’t clean our poop up,” said Hilary Newport, director of the Kent branch of the Campaign to Protect Rural England, a charity.

Tamar Valley suffered the second highest duration of sewage spills. Overlapping Devon and Cornwall, the area is home to the rivers Tamar, Tavy and Lynher, and local people have complained that the area’s sewage treatment works do not have enough capacity. In 2022 South West Water dumped raw sewage for 23,418 hours. Plymouth, at the mouth of the Tamar, has one of the largest groups of wild swimmers in the country.

“Rivers are the arteries of our planet. By polluting them we don’t just kill all life in them but also in our coastal waters, as rivers ultimately flow into the oceans,” said Lewis Pugh, a swimmer and UN patron for the oceans who lives next to the Tamar in Devon.

Campaigners attempted to designate a bathing water to help swimmers on the Tamar at the Cornish village of Calstock but their bid was rejected by the government last year. Clean It Up is calling for the creation of far more bathing waters to spur the clean-up of rivers.

The Tavy river in the Tamar Valley, which has been badly affected by sewage spills ALAMY

Each year the Environment Agency and Natural Resources Wales publish the locations of all sewage spills from storm overflows run by wastewater firms around England and Wales.

James Richardson, who created the website Top of the Poops, overlaid that data with the protected AONBs. The areas were rebranded “national landscapes” in 2022 in a bid to show they are as important as national parks. They cover about 14 per cent of land in England, Wales and Northern Ireland.

The top 20 AONBs with the longest-running spills cover some of the country’s most iconic landscapes, from the Cotswolds and Mendip Hills to the moorlands of the North Pennines. The most-hit list also included Chichester Harbour and the half of the Isle of Wight that is designated an AONB.

Advertisement

Water companies repeatedly say that they are prioritising curbing sewage dumps in the most vital habitats over ones in less sensitive sites. One of the consequences of raw sewage spills is excessive levels of nutrient pollution, which can generate algal blooms that choke fish and other freshwater life. They can also pose a risk to dogs and swimmers.

Sarah Bentley, the chief executive of Thames Water, chose to forgo her bonus last year REX

Southern Water was responsible for the longest duration of spills in AONBs, at 51,026 hours in 2022, followed by South West Water and Wessex Water. Anglian Water had the shortest number of spills into AONBs. The ranking of worst water companies is partly an artefact of which parts of the country have the most protected areas.

The figures were similar in 2021, though the total hours of spills in the protected areas were down because 2022 was a very low year for rainfall. The picture is likely to be worse for 2023 owing to wetter weather.

The Tamar at Millbrook in Cornwall ALAMY

There were about 375,000 sewage spills in England and Wales last year, a small drop on the year before. “We share our communities’ passion for the environment and we work very closely with the Environment Agency,” said Nick Mills, head of Southern Water’s clean rivers and seas task force.

John Halsall, chief operating officer at South West Water, said: “The devil is in the detail with these numbers — our region’s Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty unsurprisingly cover more populated river catchments and coastal areas as opposed to unpopulated moorlands.”

A spokesman for Wessex Water said: “National Landscapes make up around 30 per cent of the Wessex Water sewerage area and are typically high groundwater sites, where rainwater is held within rocks and soil for days or months before discharges occur.”

How monitoring works

By the end of last year, 100 per cent of storm overflows were fitted with “event duration monitoring” devices run by water companies. Those devices use water level sensors to detect the start and stop times of untreated sewage releases from overflows, and communicate readings via data networks. As the name suggests, they measure the duration of spills but not the volume of sewage.

There are about 15,000 storm overflows in England and about 2,000 in Wales. Companies are permitted to release sewage via storm overflows during heavy rainfall when sewer capacity is overwhelmed, to prevent sewage backing up into homes and businesses.

The Times is demanding faster action to improve the country’s waterways. Find out more about the Clean It Up campaign.